MoeZ_MoeB	MoeZ/MoeB domain. This putative domain is found in the MoeZ protein and the MoeB protein. The domain has two CXXC motifs that are only partly conserved.
Herpes_UL43	Herpesvirus UL43 protein. UL43 genes are expressed with true-late (gamma2) kinetics and have been identified as a virion tegument component.
Melibiase	Melibiase. 
DUF2514	Protein of unknown function (DUF2514). This family is conserved in bacteria and some viruses. The function is not known.
MACPF	MAC/Perforin domain. The membrane-attack complex (MAC) of the complement system forms transmembrane channels. These channels disrupt the phospholipid bilayer of target cells, leading to cell lysis and death. A number of proteins participate in the assembly of the MAC. Freshly activated C5b binds to C6 to form a C5b-6 complex, then to C7 forming the C5b-7 complex. The C5b-7 complex binds to C8, which is composed of three chains (alpha, beta, and gamma), thus forming the C5b-8 complex. C5b-8 subsequently binds to C9 and acts as a catalyst in the polymerisation of C9. Active MAC has a subunit composition of C5b-C6-C7-C8-C9{n}. Perforin is a protein found in cytolytic T-cell and killer cells. In the presence of calcium, perforin polymerises into transmembrane tubules and is capable of lysing, non-specifically, a variety of target cells. There are a number of regions of similarity in the sequences of complement components C6, C7, C8-alpha, C8-beta, C9 and perforin. The X-ray crystal structure of a MACPF domain reveals that it shares a common fold with bacterial cholesterol dependent cytolysins (pfam01289) such as perfringolysin O. Three key pieces of evidence suggests that MACPF domains and CDCs are homologous: Functional similarity (pore formation), conservation of three glycine residues at a hinge in both families and conservation of a complex core fold.
Glyco_transf_9	Glycosyltransferase family 9 (heptosyltransferase). Members of this family belong to glycosyltransferase family 9. Lipopolysaccharide is a major component of the outer leaflet of the outer membrane in Gram-negative bacteria. It is composed of three domains; lipid A, Core oligosaccharide and the O-antigen. All of these enzymes transfer heptose to the lipopolysaccharide core.
Sad1_UNC	Sad1 / UNC-like C-terminal. The Caenorhabditis elegans UNC-84 protein is a nuclear envelope protein that is involved in nuclear anchoring and migration during development. The S. pombe Sad1 protein localises at the spindle pole body. UNC-84 and and Sad1 share a common C-terminal region, that is often termed the SUN (Sad1 and UNC) domain. In mammals, the SUN domain is present in two proteins, Sun1 and Sun2. The SUN domain of Sun2 has been demonstrated to be in the periplasm.
Methyltrans_RNA	RNA methyltransferase. RNA methyltransferases modify nucleotides during ribosomal RNA maturation in a site-specific manner. The Escherichia coli member is specific for U1498 methylation.
Baseplate_J	Baseplate J-like protein. The P2 bacteriophage J protein lies at the edge of the baseplate. This family also includes a number of bacterial homologues, which are thought to have been horizontally transferred.
Vps53_N	Vps53-like, N-terminal. Vps53 complexes with Vps52 and Vps54 to form a multi- subunit complex involved in regulating membrane trafficking events.
TYA	TYA transposon protein. Ty are yeast transposons. A 5.7kb transcript codes for p3 a fusion protein of TYA and TYB. The TYA protein is analogous to the gag protein of retroviruses. TYA a is cleaved to form 46kd protein which can form mature virion like particles.
Herpes_U34	Herpesvirus virion protein U34. This protein is known as R50 in cytomegalovirus.
EspF	EspF protein repeat. The enteropathogenic Escherichia coli EspF secreted protein induces host cell apoptosis. Its proline-rich structure suggests that it may act by binding to SH3 domains or EVH1 domains of host cell signalling proteins.
Spc97_Spc98	Spc97 / Spc98 family. The spindle pole body (SPB) functions as the microtubule-organising centre in yeast. Members of this family are spindle pole body (SBP) components such as Spc97 and Spc98 that form a complex with gamma-tubulin. This family of proteins includes the grip motif 1 and grip motif 2.
DUF59	Domain of unknown function DUF59. This family includes prokaryotic proteins of unknown function. The family also includes PhaH from Pseudomonas putida. PhaH forms a complex with PhaF, PhaG and PhaI, which hydroxylates phenylacetic acid to 2-hydroxyphenylacetic acid. So members of this family may all be components of ring hydroxylating complexes.
Nodulin-like	Nodulin-like. This family represents a conserved region within plant nodulin-like proteins.
DNA_pol_delta_4	DNA polymerase delta, subunit 4. 
PABP	Poly-adenylate binding protein, unique domain. The region featured in this family is found towards the C-terminus of poly(A)-binding proteins (PABPs). These are eukaryotic proteins that, through their binding of the 3' poly(A) tail on mRNA, have very important roles in the pathways of gene expression. They seem to provide a scaffold on which other proteins can bind and mediate processes such as export, translation and turnover of the transcripts. Moreover, they may act as antagonists to the binding of factors that allow mRNA degradation, regulating mRNA longevity. PABPs are also involved in nuclear transport. PABPs interact with poly(A) tails via RNA-recognition motifs (pfam00076). Note that the PABP C-terminal region is also found in members of the hyperplastic discs protein (HYD) family of ubiquitin ligases that contain HECT domains - these are also included in this family.
Endonuclease_5	Endonuclease V. Endonuclease V is specific for single-stranded DNA or for duplex DNA that contains uracil or that is damaged by a variety of agents.
Pkinase_Tyr	Protein tyrosine kinase. 
SBDS	Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome (SBDS) protein. This family is highly conserved in species ranging from archaea to vertebrates and plants. The family contains several Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome (SBDS) proteins from both mouse and humans. Shwachman-Diamond syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder with clinical features that include pancreatic exocrine insufficiency, haematological dysfunction and skeletal abnormalities. It is characterised by bone marrow failure and leukemia predisposition. Members of this family play a role in RNA metabolism. In yeast these proteins have been shown to be critical for the release and recycling of the nucleolar shuttling factor Tif6 from pre-60S ribosomes, a key step in 60S maturation and translational activation of ribosomes. This data links defective late 60S subunit maturation to an inherited bone marrow failure syndrome associated with leukemia predisposition.
Barren	Barren protein. This family consists of several Barren protein homologues from several eukaryotic organisms. In Drosophila Barren (barr) is required for sister-chromatid segregation in mitosis. barr encodes a novel protein that is present in proliferating cells and has homologues in yeast and human. Mitotic defects in barr embryos become apparent during cycle 16, resulting in a loss of PNS and CNS neurons. Centromeres move apart at the metaphase-anaphase transition and Cyclin B is degraded, but sister chromatids remain connected, resulting in chromatin bridging. Barren protein localises to chromatin throughout mitosis. Colocalisation and biochemical experiments indicate that Barren associates with Topoisomerase II throughout mitosis and alters the activity of Topoisomerase II. It has been suggested that this association is required for proper chromosomal segregation by facilitating the decatenation of chromatids at anaphase.
DHBP_synthase	3,4-dihydroxy-2-butanone 4-phosphate synthase. 3,4-Dihydroxy-2-butanone 4-phosphate is biosynthesised from ribulose 5-phosphate and serves as the biosynthetic precursor for the xylene ring of riboflavin. Sometimes found as a bifunctional enzyme with pfam00925.
NUC130_3NT	NUC130/3NT domain. This N terminal domain is found in a novel nucleolar protein family.
DNA_pol3_delta	DNA polymerase III, delta subunit. DNA polymerase III, delta subunit (EC 2.7.7.7) is required for, along with delta' subunit, the assembly of the processivity factor beta(2) onto primed DNA in the DNA polymerase III holoenzyme-catalysed reaction. The delta subunit is also known as HolA.
OmpW	OmpW family. This family includes outer membrane protein W (OmpW) proteins from a variety of bacterial species. This protein may form the receptor for S4 colicins in Escherichia coli.
EAL	EAL domain. This domain is found in diverse bacterial signaling proteins. It is called EAL after its conserved residues. The EAL domain is a good candidate for a diguanylate phosphodiesterase function. The domain contains many conserved acidic residues that could participate in metal binding and might form the phosphodiesterase active site.
S_locus_glycop	S-locus glycoprotein family. In Brassicaceae, self-incompatible plants have a self/non-self recognition system. This is sporophytically controlled by multiple alleles at a single locus (S). S-locus glycoproteins, as well as S-receptor kinases, are in linkage with the S-alleles.
Cu_amine_oxidN2	Copper amine oxidase, N2 domain. This domain is the first or second structural domain in copper amine oxidases, it is known as the N2 domain. Its function is uncertain. The catalytic domain can be found in pfam01179. Copper amine oxidases are a ubiquitous and novel group of quinoenzymes that catalyse the oxidative deamination of primary amines to the corresponding aldehydes, with concomitant reduction of molecular oxygen to hydrogen peroxide. The enzymes are dimers of identical 70-90 kDa subunits, each of which contains a single copper ion and a covalently bound cofactor formed by the post-translational modification of a tyrosine side chain to 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenylalanine quinone (TPQ).
WT1	Wilm's tumour protein. 
GIIM	Group II intron, maturase-specific domain. This region is found mainly in various bacterial and archaeal species, but a few members of this family are expressed by fungal and chlamydomonal species. It has been implicated in the binding of intron RNA during reverse transcription and splicing.
ICL	Isocitrate lyase family. 
HpaP	Type III secretion protein (HpaP). This entry represents proteins encoded by genes which are always found in type III secretion operons, although their function in the processes of secretion and virulence is unclear. Hpa stands for Hrp-associated gene, where Hrp stands for hypersensitivity response and virulence.
ThiS	ThiS family. ThiS (thiaminS) is a 66 aa protein involved in sulphur transfer. ThiS is coded in the thiCEFSGH operon in Escherichia coli. This family of proteins have two conserved Glycines at the COOH terminus. Thiocarboxylate is formed at the last G in the activation process. Sulphur is transferred from ThiI to ThiS in a reaction catalysed by IscS. MoaD, a protein involved sulphur transfer in molybdopterin synthesis, is about the same length and shows limited sequence similarity to ThiS. Both have the conserved GG at the COOH end.
ProRS-C_1	Prolyl-tRNA synthetase, C-terminal. Members of this family are predominantly found in prokaryotic prolyl-tRNA synthetase. They contain a zinc binding site, and adopt a structure consisting of alpha helices and antiparallel beta sheets arranged in 2 layers, in a beta-alpha-beta-alpha-beta motif.
ATP-synt_A	ATP synthase A chain. 
TCP	TCP family transcription factor. This is a family of TCP plant transcription factors. TCP proteins were named after the first characterised members (TB1, CYC and PCFs) and they are involved in multiple developmental control pathways. This region contains a DNA binding basic-Helix-Loop-Helix (bHLP) structure.
TrbL	TrbL/VirB6 plasmid conjugal transfer protein. 
Pneumo_phosprot	Pneumovirus phosphoprotein. This family represents the phosphoprotein of Paramyxoviridae, a putative RNA polymerase alpha subunit that may function in template binding.
PFL	Pyruvate formate lyase. 
IPPT	IPP transferase. This is a family of IPP transferases EC:2.5.1.8 also known as tRNA delta(2)-isopentenylpyrophosphate transferase. These enzymes modify both cytoplasmic and mitochondrial tRNAs at A(37) to give isopentenyl A(37).
DUF2211	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2211). Members of this family of predicted and uncharacterised proteins have no known function.
SRA1	Steroid receptor RNA activator (SRA1). This family consists of several hypothetical mammalian steroid receptor RNA activator proteins. SRA-RNAs likely to encode stable proteins are widely expressed in breast cancer cell lines. SRA-RNA is a steroid receptor co-activator which acts as a functional RNA and is classified as belonging to the growing family of functional non-coding RNAs.
DUF730	Protein of unknown function (DUF730). This family consists of several uncharacterised Arabidopsis thaliana proteins of unknown function.
DUF2083	Predicted transcriptional regulator (DUF2083). This domain is found in various prokaryotic transcriptional regulatory proteins belonging to the XRE family. Its exact function is, as yet, unknown.
LGT	Prolipoprotein diacylglyceryl transferase. 
KAP	Kinesin-associated protein (KAP). This family consists of several eukaryotic kinesin-associated (KAP) proteins. Kinesins are intracellular multimeric transport motor proteins that move cellular cargo on microtubule tracks. It has been shown that the sea urchin KRP85/95 holoenzyme associates with a KAP115 non-motor protein, forming a heterotrimeric complex in vitro, called the Kinesin-II.
Ldh_1_N	lactate/malate dehydrogenase, NAD binding domain. L-lactate dehydrogenases are metabolic enzymes which catalyse the conversion of L-lactate to pyruvate, the last step in anaerobic glycolysis. L-2-hydroxyisocaproate dehydrogenases are also members of the family. Malate dehydrogenases catalyse the interconversion of malate to oxaloacetate. The enzyme participates in the citric acid cycle. L-lactate dehydrogenase is also found as a lens crystallin in bird and crocodile eyes. N-terminus (this family) is a Rossmann NAD-binding fold. C-terminus is an unusual alpha+beta fold.
DUF1253	Protein of unknown function (DUF1253). This family represents the C-terminal portion (approximately 500 residues) of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
NERD	Nuclease-related domain. The nuclease-related domain (NERD) is found in a range of bacterial as well as archaeal and plant proteins. It has distant similarity to endonucleases (hence its name) and its predicted secondary structure is helix - sheet - sheet - sheet - sheet - weak sheet/long loop - helix - sheet - sheet. The majority of NERD-containing proteins are single-domain, but in several cases proteins containing NERD have additional domains which in 75% of cases are involved in DNA processing.
YibE_F	YibE/F-like protein. The sequences featured in this family are similar to two proteins expressed by Lactococcus lactis, YibE and YibF. Most of the members of this family are annotated as being putative membrane proteins, and in fact the sequences contain a high proportion of hydrophobic residues.
Colicin_im	Colicin immunity protein. Colicin immunity proteins are plasmid encoded proteins necessary for protecting the cell against colicins. Colicins are toxins released by bacteria during times of stress.
LANC_like	Lanthionine synthetase C-like protein. Lanthionines are thioether bridges that are putatively generated by dehydration of Ser and Thr residues followed by addition of cysteine residues within the peptide. This family contains the lanthionine synthetase C-like proteins 1 and 2 which are related to the bacterial lanthionine synthetase components C (LanC). LANCL1 (P40 seven-transmembrane-domain protein) and LANCL2 (testes-specific adriamycin sensitivity protein) are thought to be peptide-modifying enzyme components in eukaryotic cells. Both proteins are produced in large quantities in the brain and testes and may have role in the immune surveillance of these organs. Lanthionines are found in lantibiotics, which are peptide-derived, post-translationally modified antimicrobials produced by several bacterial strains. This region contains seven internal repeats.
BAR	BAR domain. BAR domains are dimerisation, lipid binding and curvature sensing modules found in many different protein families. A BAR domain with an additional N-terminal amphipathic helix (an N-BAR) can drive membrane curvature. These N-BAR domains are found in amphiphysin, endophilin, BRAP and Nadrin. BAR domains are also frequently found alongside domains that determine lipid specificity, like pfam00169 and pfam00787 domains in beta centaurins and sorting nexins respectively.
MauE	Methylamine utilisation protein MauE. This family consists of several bacterial methylamine utilisation MauE proteins. Synthesis of enzymes involved in methylamine oxidation via methylamine dehydrogenase (MADH) is encoded by genes present in the mau cluster. MauE and MauD are specifically involved in the processing, transport, and/or maturation of the beta-subunit and that the absence of each of these proteins leads to production of a non-functional beta-subunit which becomes rapidly degraded.
Vpu	Vpu protein. The Vpu protein contains an N-terminal transmembrane spanning region and a C-terminal cytoplasmic region. The HIV-1 Vpu protein stimulates virus production by enhancing the release of viral particles from infected cells. The VPU protein binds specifically to CD4.
zf-UBP	Zn-finger in ubiquitin-hydrolases and other protein. 
Ku	Ku70/Ku80 beta-barrel domain. The Ku heterodimer (composed of Ku70 and Ku80) contributes to genomic integrity through its ability to bind DNA double-strand breaks and facilitate repair by the non-homologous end-joining pathway. This is the central DNA-binding beta-barrel domain. This domain is found in both the Ku70 and Ku80 proteins that form a DNA binding heterodimer.
Ku_C	Ku70/Ku80 C-terminal arm. The Ku heterodimer (composed of Ku70 and Ku80) contributes to genomic integrity through its ability to bind DNA double-strand breaks and facilitate repair by the non-homologous end-joining pathway. This is the C terminal arm. This alpha helical region embraces the beta-barrel domain pfam02735 of the opposite subunit.
B9	B9 protein. This family represents a conserved region within the eukaryotic protein B9. B9 has been isolated from endothelial precursor cells.
PTPA	Phosphotyrosyl phosphate activator (PTPA) protein. Phosphotyrosyl phosphatase activator (PTPA) proteins stimulate the phosphotyrosyl phosphatase (PTPase) activity of the dimeric form of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). PTPase activity in PP2A (in vitro) is relatively low when compared to the better recognised phosphoserine/ threonine protein phosphorylase activity. The specific biological role of PTPA is unknown, Basal expression of PTPA depends on the activity of a ubiquitous transcription factor, Yin Yang 1 (YY1). The tumour suppressor protein p53 can inhibit PTPA expression through an unknown mechanism that negatively controls YY1.
Ribosomal_S4	Ribosomal protein S4/S9 N-terminal domain. This family includes small ribosomal subunit S9 from prokaryotes and S16 from metazoans. This domain is predicted to bind to ribosomal RNA. This domain is composed of four helices in the known structure. However the domain is discontinuous in sequence and the alignment for this family contains only the first three helices.
DUF2133	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2133). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
TruB_N	TruB family pseudouridylate synthase (N terminal domain). Members of this family are involved in modifying bases in RNA molecules. They carry out the conversion of uracil bases to pseudouridine. This family includes TruB, a pseudouridylate synthase that specifically converts uracil 55 to pseudouridine in most tRNAs. This family also includes Cbf5p that modifies rRNA.
GBP	Guanylate-binding protein, N-terminal domain. Transcription of the anti-viral guanylate-binding protein (GBP) is induced by interferon-gamma during macrophage induction. This family contains GBP1 and GPB2, both GTPases capable of binding GTP, GDP and GMP.
CDH	CDP-diacylglycerol pyrophosphatase. This is a family of CDP-diacylglycerol pyrophosphatases, EC:3.6.1.26. This enzyme catalyses the reaction CDP-diacylglycerol + H2O <=> CMP + phosphatidate.
OHCU_decarbox	OHCU decarboxylase. The proteins in this family are OHCU decarboxylase - enzymes of the purine catabolism that catalyse the conversion of OHCU into S(+)-allantoin. This is the third step of the conversion of uric acid (a purine derivative) to allantoin. Step one is catalysed by urate oxidase (pfam01014) and step two is catalysed by HIUases (pfam00576).
Laminin_II	Laminin Domain II. It has been suggested that the domains I and II from laminin A, B1 and B2 may come together to form a triple helical coiled-coil structure.
TTL	Tubulin-tyrosine ligase family. Tubulins and microtubules are subjected to several post-translational modifications of which the reversible detyrosination/tyrosination of the carboxy-terminal end of most alpha-tubulins has been extensively analysed. This modification cycle involves a specific carboxypeptidase and the activity of the tubulin-tyrosine ligase (TTL). The true physiological function of TTL has so far not been established. Tubulin-tyrosine ligase (TTL) catalyses the ATP-dependent post-translational addition of a tyrosine to the carboxy terminal end of detyrosinated alpha-tubulin. In normally cycling cells, the tyrosinated form of tubulin predominates. However, in breast cancer cells, the detyrosinated form frequently predominates, with a correlation to tumour aggressiveness. On the other hand, 3-nitrotyrosine has been shown to be incorporated, by TTL, into the carboxy terminal end of detyrosinated alpha-tubulin. This reaction is not reversible by the carboxypeptidase enzyme. Cells cultured in 3-nitrotyrosine rich medium showed evidence of altered microtubule structure and function, including altered cell morphology, epithelial barrier dysfunction, and apoptosis.
Rho_GDI	RHO protein GDP dissociation inhibitor. 
Basic	Myogenic Basic domain. This basic domain is found in the MyoD family of muscle specific proteins that control muscle development. The bHLH region of the MyoD family includes the basic domain and the Helix-loop-helix (HLH) motif. The bHLH region mediates specific DNA binding. With 12 residues of the basic domain involved in DNA binding. The basic domain forms an extended alpha helix in the structure.
PhdYeFM	Phd_YefM. 
Ribosomal_L19e	Ribosomal protein L19e. 
LtrA	Bacterial low temperature requirement A protein (LtrA). This family consists of several bacteria specific low temperature requirement A (LtrA) protein sequences which have been found to be essential for growth at low temperatures in Listeria monocytogenes.
OmpH	Outer membrane protein (OmpH-like). This family includes outer membrane proteins such as OmpH among others. Skp (OmpH) has been characterised as a molecular chaperone that interacts with unfolded proteins as they emerge in the periplasm from the Sec translocation machinery.
TRM	N2,N2-dimethylguanosine tRNA methyltransferase. This enzyme EC:2.1.1.32 used S-AdoMet to methylate tRNA. The TRM1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is necessary for the N2,N2-dimethylguanosine modification of both mitochondrial and cytoplasmic tRNAs. The enzyme is found in both eukaryotes and archaebacteria
Mago_nashi	Mago nashi protein. This family was originally identified in Drosophila and called mago nashi, it is a strict maternal effect, grandchildless-like, gene. The human homologue has been shown to interact with an RNA binding protein. An RNAi knockout of the Caenorhabditis elegans homologue causes masculinization of the germ line (Mog phenotype) hermaphrodites, suggesting it is involved in hermaphrodite germ-line sex determination. Mago nashi has been found to be part of the exon-exon junction complex that binds 20 nucleotides upstream of exon-exon junctions.
Nucleoplasmin	Nucleoplasmin. Nucleoplasmins are also known as chromatin decondensation proteins. They bind to core histones and transfer DNA to them in a reaction that requires ATP. This is thought to play a role in the assembly of regular nucleosomal arrays.
Exonuc_VII_L	Exonuclease VII, large subunit. This family consist of exonuclease VII, large subunit EC:3.1.11.6 This enzyme catalyses exonucleolytic cleavage in either 5'->3' or 3'->5' direction to yield 5'-phosphomononucleotides. This exonuclease VII enzyme is composed of one large subunit and 4 small ones.
DUF2206	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2206). This domain, found in various hypothetical archaeal proteins, has no known function.
Morph_protein1	Defects in morphology protein 1, mitochondrial precursor. Members of this family of proteins are thought to be involved in cellular morphology, though little else is known about them.
Asp-Al_Ex	Predicted Permease Membrane Region. This family represents five transmembrane helices that are normally found flanking (five either side) a pair of pfam02080 domains. This suggests that the paired regions form a ten helical structure, probably forming the pore, whereas the pfam02080) binds a ligand for export or regulation of the pore. A member from Tetragenococcus halophilus is described as a aspartate-alanine antiporter. In conjunction with L-aspartate-beta-decarboxylase it forms a 'proton motive metabolic cycle catalysed by an aspartate-alanine exchange'. The general conservation of domain architecture in this family suggests that they are functional orthologues.
CoaE	Dephospho-CoA kinase. This family catalyses the phosphorylation of the 3'-hydroxyl group of dephosphocoenzyme A to form Coenzyme A EC:2.7.1.24. This enzyme uses ATP in its reaction.
CPSase_L_chain	Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase L chain, N-terminal domain. Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase catalyses the ATP-dependent synthesis of carbamyl-phosphate from glutamine or ammonia and bicarbonate. This important enzyme initiates both the urea cycle and the biosynthesis of arginine and/or pyrimidines. The carbamoyl-phosphate synthase (CPS) enzyme in prokaryotes is a heterodimer of a small and large chain. The small chain promotes the hydrolysis of glutamine to ammonia, which is used by the large chain to synthesise carbamoyl phosphate. See pfam00988. The small chain has a GATase domain in the carboxyl terminus. See pfam00117.
Herpes_glycop_H	Herpesvirus glycoprotein H. Herpesvirus glycoprotein H (gH) is a virion associated envelope glycoprotein. Complex formation between gH and gL has been demonstrated in both virions and infected cells.
ELMO_CED12	ELMO/CED-12 family. This family represents a conserved domain which is found in a number of eukaryotic proteins including CED-12, ELMO I and ELMO II. ELMO1 is a component of signalling pathways that regulate phagocytosis and cell migration and is the mammalian orthologue of the Caenorhabditis elegans gene, ced-12. CED-12 is required for the engulfment of dying cells and cell migration. In mammalian cells, ELMO1 interacts with Dock180 as part of the CrkII/Dock180/Rac pathway responsible for phagocytosis and cell migration. ELMO1 is ubiquitously expressed, although its expression is highest in the spleen, an organ rich in immune cells. ELMO1 has a PH domain and a polyproline sequence motif at its C terminus which are not present in this alignment.
DNA_ligase_A_C	ATP dependent DNA ligase C terminal region. This region is found in many but not all ATP-dependent DNA ligase enzymes (EC:6.5.1.1). It is thought to constitute part of the catalytic core of ATP dependent DNA ligase.
DUF1295	Protein of unknown function (DUF1295). This family contains a number of bacterial and eukaryotic proteins of unknown function that are approximately 300 residues long.
DUF143	Domain of unknown function DUF143. This domain has no known function nor do any of the proteins that possess it. The aligned region is approximately 100 amino acids long.
Phage_portal	Phage portal protein. Bacteriophage portal proteins form a dodecamer and is located at a five-fold vertex of the viral capsid. The portal complex forms a channel through which the viral DNA is packaged into the capsid, and exits during infection. The portal protein is though to rotate during DNA packaging. Portal proteins from different phage show little sequence homology, so this family does not represent all portal proteins.
COX5C	Cytochrome c oxidase subunit Vc (COX5C). This family consists of plant cytochrome c oxidase subunit 5c proteins.
ST7	ST7 protein. The ST7 (for suppression of tumorigenicity 7) protein is thought to be a tumour suppressor gene. The molecular function of this protein is uncertain.
Seryl_tRNA_N	Seryl-tRNA synthetase N-terminal domain. This domain is found associated with the Pfam tRNA synthetase class II domain (pfam00587) and represents the N-terminal domain of seryl-tRNA synthetase.
PsbW	Photosystem II reaction centre W protein (PsbW). This family consists of several plant specific photosystem II reaction centre W (PsbW) proteins. PsbW is a nuclear-encoded protein located in the thylakoid membrane of the chloroplast. PsbW is a core component of photosystem II but not photosystem I. This family does not appear to be related to pfam03912.
UDPG_MGDP_dh_C	UDP-glucose/GDP-mannose dehydrogenase family, UDP binding domain. The UDP-glucose/GDP-mannose dehydrogenaseses are a small group of enzymes which possesses the ability to catalyse the NAD-dependent 2-fold oxidation of an alcohol to an acid without the release of an aldehyde intermediate.
Nop25	Nucleolar protein 12 (25kDa). Members of this family of proteins are involved in ribosomal RNA processing, specifically binding to 28S rRNA.
Nup133_N	Nup133 N terminal like. Nup133 is a nucleoporin that is crucial for nuclear pore complex (NPC) biogenesis. The N terminal forms a seven-bladed beta propeller structure.
NdhL	NADH dehydrogenase transmembrane subunit. The NdhL family is a component of the NDH-1L complex that is one of the proton-pumping NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductases that catalyse the electron transfer from NADH to ubiquinone linked with proton translocation across the membrane. NDH-1L is essential for photoheterotrophic cell growth. NdhL appears to contain two transmembrane helices and it is necessary for the functioning of though not the correct assembly of the NDH-1 complex in Synechocystis 6803. The conservation between cyanobacteria and green plants suggests that chloroplast NDH-1 complexes contain related subunits.
MA3	MA3 domain. Domain in DAP-5, eIF4G, MA-3 and other proteins. Highly alpha-helical. May contain repeats and/or regions similar to MIF4G domains.
UPF0089	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0089). This family of uncharacterised proteins is greatly expanded in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The most conserved region of the proteins contains conserved histidine and aspartate residues suggesting a possible metal binding site suggestive of a protease activity (Bateman A. pers. obs.).
Rpr2	RNAse P Rpr2/Rpp21/SNM1 subunit domain. This family contains a ribonuclease P subunit of humans and yeast. Other members of the family include the probable archaeal homologues. This family includes SNM1. It is a subunit of RNase MRP (mitochondrial RNA processing), a ribonucleoprotein endoribonuclease that has roles in both mitochondrial DNA replication and nuclear 5.8S rRNA processing. SNM1 is an RNA binding protein that binds the MRP RNA specifically. This subunit possibly binds the precursor tRNA.
CsbD	CsbD-like. CsbD is a bacterial general stress response protein. It's expression is mediated by sigma-B, an alternative sigma factor. The role of CsbD in stress response is unclear.
Urb2	Urb2/Npa2 family. This family includes the Urb2 protein from yeast that are involved in ribosome biogenesis.
zf-Tim10_DDP	Tim10/DDP family zinc finger. Putative zinc binding domain with four conserved cysteine residues. This domain is found in the human X-linked deafness dystonia protein. Members of this family such as Tim9 and Tim10 are involved in mitochondrial protein import. Members of this family seem to be localised to the mitochondrial intermembrane space.
Stk19	Serine-threonine protein kinase 19. This serine-threonine protein kinase number 19 is expressed from the MHC and predominantly in the nucleus. Protein kinases are involved in signal transduction pathways and play fundamental roles in the regulation of cell functions. This is a novel Ser/Thr protein kinase, that has Mn2+-dependent protein kinase activity that phosphorylates alpha -casein at Ser/Thr residues and histone at Ser residues. It can be covalently modified by the reactive ATP analogue 5'-p-fluorosulfonylbenzoyladenosine in the absence of ATP, and this modification is prevented in the presence of 1 mM ATP, indicating that the kinase domain of is capable of binding ATP.
RdRP_5	Reovirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase lambda 3. The sequences in this family are similar to the reoviral minor core protein lambda 3, which functions as a RNA-dependent RNA polymerase within the protein capsid. It is organised into 3 domains. N- and C-terminal domains create a 'cage' that encloses a conserved central catalytic domain within a hollow centre; this catalytic domain is arranged to form 'fingers', 'palm' and 'thumb' subdomains. Unlike other RNA polymerases, like HIV reverse transcriptase and T7 RNA polymerase, lambda 3 protein binds template and substrate with only localised rearrangements, and catalytic activity can occur with little structural change. However, the structure of the catalytic complex is similar to that of other polymerase catalytic complexes with known structure.
DUF2313	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2313). Members of this family of proteins comprise various hypothetical and putative bacteriophage tail proteins.
Ribosomal_S9	Ribosomal protein S9/S16. This family includes small ribosomal subunit S9 from prokaryotes and S16 from eukaryotes.
Coprinus_mating	Coprinus cinereus mating-type protein. This family consists of several mating-type alpha and beta proteins from Coprinus cinereus (Inky cap fungus) as well as a related sequence from Schizophyllum commune (Bracket fungus). The A mating type locus of the fungus Coprinus cinereus is a complex, multigenic locus which regulates compatibility and subsequent sexual development.
Motile_Sperm	MSP (Major sperm protein) domain. Major sperm proteins are involved in sperm motility. These proteins oligomerise to form filaments. This family contains many other proteins.
Alliinase_C	Allinase. Allicin is a thiosulphinate that gives rise to dithiines, allyl sulphides and ajoenes, the three groups of active compounds in Allium species. Allicin is synthesised from sulfoxide cysteine derivatives by alliinase (EC:4.4.1.4), whose C-S lyase activity cleaves C(beta)-S(gamma) bonds. It is thought that this enzyme forms part of a primitive plant defence system.
PAD_porph	Porphyromonas-type peptidyl-arginine deiminase. Peptidyl-arginine deiminase (PAD) enzymes catalyse the deimination of the guanidino group from carboxy-terminal arginine residues of various peptides to produce ammonia. PAD from Porphyromonas gingivalis (PPAD) appears to be evolutionarily unrelated to mammalian PAD (pfam03068), which is a metalloenzyme. PPAD is thought to belong to the same superfamily as aminotransferase and arginine deiminase, and to form an alpha/beta propeller structure. This family has previously been named PPADH (Porphyromonas peptidyl-arginine deiminase homologues). The predicted catalytic residues in PPAD are Asp130, Asp187, His236, Asp238 and Cys351. These are absolutely conserved with the exception of Asp187 which is absent in two family members. PPAD is also able to catalyse the deimination of free L-arginine, but has primarily peptidyl-arginine specificity. It may have a FMN cofactor.
Not1	CCR4-Not complex component, Not1. The Ccr4-Not complex is a global regulator of transcription that affects genes positively and negatively and is thought to regulate transcription factor TFIID.
Topoisom_bac	DNA topoisomerase. This subfamily of topoisomerase is divided on the basis that these enzymes preferentially relax negatively supercoiled DNA, from a 5' phospho- tyrosine linkage in the enzyme-DNA covalent intermediate and has high affinity for single stranded DNA.
Clat_adaptor_s	Clathrin adaptor complex small chain. 
Urease_gamma	Urease, gamma subunit. Urease is a nickel-binding enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of urea to carbon dioxide and ammonia.
Queuosine_synth	Queuosine biosynthesis protein. Queuosine (Q) biosynthesis protein, or S-adenosylmethionine:tRNA -ribosyltransferase-isomerase, is required for the synthesis of the queuosine precursor (oQ). Q is a hypermodified nucleoside usually found at the first position of the anticodon of asparagine, aspartate, histidine, and tyrosine tRNAs.
CDP-OH_P_transf	CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase. All of these members have the ability to catalyse the displacement of CMP from a CDP-alcohol by a second alcohol with formation of a phosphodiester bond and concomitant breaking of a phosphoride anhydride bond.
PPV_E1_N	E1 Protein, N terminal domain. 
Phage_tail_X	Phage Tail Protein X. This domain is found in a family of phage tail proteins. Visual analysis suggests that it is related to pfam01476 (personal obs: C Yeats). The functional annotation of family members further confirms this hypothesis.
DUF1527	Protein of unknown function (DUF1527). 
Sec6	Exocyst complex component Sec6. Sec6 is a component of the multiprotein exocyst complex. Sec6 interacts with Sec8, Sec10 and Exo70.These exocyst proteins localise to regions of active exocytosis-at the growing ends of interphase cells and in the medial region of cells undergoing cytokinesis-in an F-actin-dependent and exocytosis- independent manner.
NPH3	NPH3 family. Phototropism of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in response to a blue light source is initiated by nonphototropic hypocotyl 1 (NPH1), a light-activated serine-threonine protein kinase. Mutations in NPH3 disrupt early signaling occurring downstream of the NPH1 photoreceptor. The NPH3 gene encodes a NPH1-interacting protein. NPH3 is a member of a large protein family, apparently specific to higher plants, and may function as an adapter or scaffold protein to bring together the enzymatic components of a NPH1-activated phosphorelay.
2CSK_N	Two-component sensor kinase N-terminal. This domain is found in bacterial two-component sensor kinases towards the N-terminus.
GNT-I	GNT-I family. Alpha-1,3-mannosyl-glycoprotein beta-1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (GNT-I, GLCNAC-T I) EC:2.4.1.101 transfers N-acetyl-D-glucosamine from UDP to high-mannose glycoprotein N-oligosaccharide. This is an essential step in the synthesis of complex or hybrid-type N-linked oligosaccharides. The enzyme is an integral membrane protein localised to the Golgi apparatus, and is probably distributed in all tissues. The catalytic domain is located at the C-terminus.
YaeQ	YaeQ protein. This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 180 residues in length which are often known as YaeQ. YaeQ is homologous to RfaH, a specialised transcription elongation protein. YaeQ is known to compensate for loss of RfaH function.
ANF_receptor	Receptor family ligand binding region. This family includes extracellular ligand binding domains of a wide range of receptors. This family also includes the bacterial amino acid binding proteins of known structure.
Kinesin	Kinesin motor domain. 
GRASP55_65	GRASP55/65 family. GRASP55 (Golgi reassembly stacking protein of 55 kDa) and GRASP65 (a 65 kDa) protein are highly homologous. GRASP55 is a component of the Golgi stacking machinery. GRASP65, an N-ethylmaleimide- sensitive membrane protein required for the stacking of Golgi cisternae in a cell-free system.
KTI12	Chromatin associated protein KTI12. This is a family of chromatin associated proteins which interact with the Elongator complex, a component of the elongating form of RNA polymerase II. The Elongator complex has histone acetyltransferase activity.
Cerato-platanin	Cerato-platanin. This family contains a number of fungal cerato-platanin phytotoxic proteins approximately 150 residues long. Cerato-platanin contains four cysteine residues that form two disulphide bonds.
DUF155	Uncharacterised ACR, YagE family COG1723. 
PTS-HPr	PTS HPr component phosphorylation site. 
FmdA_AmdA	Acetamidase/Formamidase family. This family includes amidohydrolases of formamide EC:3.5.1.49 and acetamide. Methylophilus methylotrophus formamidase forms a homotrimer suggesting all the members of this family also do.
DUF330	Protein of unknown function (DUF330). The proteins in this family are uncharacterised. The proteins are 170-190 amino residues in length.
Mmp37	Mitochondrial matrix Mmp37. MMp37 is a mitochondrial matrix protein that functions in the translocation of proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Aldose_epim	Aldose 1-epimerase. 
Recep_L_domain	Receptor L domain. The L domains from these receptors make up the bilobal ligand binding site. Each L domain consists of a single-stranded right hand beta-helix. This Pfam entry is missing the first 50 amino acid residues of the domain.
SP_C-Propep	Surfactant protein C, N terminal propeptide. The N-terminal propeptide of surfactant protein C adopts an alpha-helical structure, with turn and extended regions. It's main function is the stabilisation of metastable surfactant protein C (SP-C), since the latter can irreversibly transform from its native alpha-helical structure to beta-sheet aggregates and form amyloid-like fibrils. The correct intracellular trafficking of proSP-C has also been reported to depend on the propeptide.
LRRNT_2	Leucine rich repeat N-terminal domain. Leucine Rich Repeats pfam00560 are short sequence motifs present in a number of proteins with diverse functions and cellular locations. Leucine Rich Repeats are often flanked by cysteine rich domains. This domain is often found at the N-terminus of tandem leucine rich repeats.
GPI2	Phosphatidylinositol N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) represents an important anchoring molecule for cell surface proteins. The first step in its synthesis is the transfer of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) from UDP-N-acetylglucosamine to phosphatidylinositol (PI). This step involves products of three or four genes in both yeast (GPI1, GPI2 and GPI3) and mammals (GPI1, PIG A, PIG H and PIG C), respectively.
SAC3_GANP	SAC3/GANP/Nin1/mts3/eIF-3 p25 family. This large family includes diverse proteins involved in large complexes. The alignment contains one highly conserved negatively charged residue and one highly conserved positively charged residue that are probably important for the function of these proteins. The family includes the yeast nuclear export factor Sac3, and mammalian GANP/MCM3-associated proteins, which facilitate the nuclear localisation of MCM3, a protein that associates with chromatin in the G1 phase of the cell-cycle. The 26S protease (or 26S proteasome) is responsible for degrading ubiquitin conjugates. It consists of 19S regulatory complexes associated with the ends of 20S proteasomes. The 19S regulatory complex is composed of about 20 different polypeptides and confers ATP-dependence and substrate specificity to the 26S enzyme. The conserved region occurs at the C-terminal of the Nin1-like regulatory subunit. This family includes several eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit 11 (eIF-3 p25) proteins. Eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) is a multisubunit complex that is required for binding of mRNA to 40 S ribosomal subunits, stabilisation of ternary complex binding to 40 S subunits, and dissociation of 40 and 60 S subunits.
SCP-1	Synaptonemal complex protein 1 (SCP-1). Synaptonemal complex protein 1 (SCP-1) is the major component of the transverse filaments of the synaptonemal complex. Synaptonemal complexes are structures that are formed between homologous chromosomes during meiotic prophase.
UvrD-helicase	UvrD/REP helicase. The Rep family helicases are composed of four structural domains. The Rep family function as dimers. REP helicases catalyse ATP dependent unwinding of double stranded DNA to single stranded DNA. Bacillus subtilis addA and Escherichia coli exodeoxyribonuclease V beta have large insertions near to the carboxy-terminus relative to other members of the family.
Ald_Xan_dh_C	Aldehyde oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase, a/b hammerhead domain. 
Arf	ADP-ribosylation factor family. Pfam combines a number of different Prosite families together
CAS_CSE1	CAS/CSE protein, C-terminus. Mammalian cellular apoptosis susceptibility (CAS) proteins are homologous to the yeast chromosome-segregation protein, CSE1. This family aligns the C-terminal halves (approximately). CAS is involved in both cellular apoptosis and proliferation. Apoptosis is inhibited in CAS-depleted cells, while the expression of CAS correlates to the degree of cellular proliferation. Like CSE1, it is essential for the mitotic checkpoint in the cell cycle (CAS depletion blocks the cell in the G2 phase), and has been shown to be associated with the microtubule network and the mitotic spindle, as is the protein MEK, which is thought to regulate the intracellular localisation (predominantly nuclear vs. predominantly cytosolic) of CAS. In the nucleus, CAS acts as a nuclear transport factor in the importin pathway. The importin pathway mediates the nuclear transport of several proteins that are necessary for mitosis and further progression. CAS is therefore thought to affect the cell cycle through its effect on the nuclear transport of these proteins. Since apoptosis also requires the nuclear import of several proteins (such as P53 and transcription factors), it has been suggested that CAS also enables apoptosis by facilitating the nuclear import of at least a subset of these essential proteins.
Metallothio	Metallothionein. 
Elong-fact-P_C	Elongation factor P, C-terminal. Members of this family of nucleic acid binding domains are predominantly found in elongation factor P, where they adopt an OB-fold, with five beta-strands forming a beta-barrel in a Greek-key topology.
Chrome_Resist	Chromate resistance exported protein. Members of this family of bacterial proteins, are involved in the reduction of chromate accumulation and are essential for chromate resistance.
Tau95	RNA polymerase III transcription factor (TF)IIIC subunit. TFIIIC1 is a multisubunit DNA binding factor that serves as a dynamic platform for assembly of pre-initiation complexes on class III genes. This entry represents the tau 95 subunit which holds a key position in TFIIIC, exerting both upstream and downstream influence on the TFIIIC-DNA complex by rendering the complex more stable. Once bound to tDNA-intragenic promoter elements, TFIIIC directs the assembly of TFIIIB on the DNA, which in turn recruits the RNA polymerase III (pol III) and activates multiple rounds of transcription.
Pinin_SDK_memA	pinin/SDK/memA/ protein conserved region. Members of this family have very varied localisations within the eukaryotic cell. pinin is known to localise at the desmosomes and is implicated in anchoring intermediate filaments to the desmosomal plaque. SDK2/3 is a dynamically localised nuclear protein thought to be involved in modulation of alternative pre-mRNA splicing. memA is a tumour marker preferentially expressed in human melanoma cell lines. A common feature of the members of this family is that they may all participate in regulating protein-protein interactions.
DsbD	Cytochrome C biogenesis protein transmembrane region. This family consists of the transmembrane (i.e. non-catalytic) region of Cytochrome C biogenesis proteins also known as disulphide interchange proteins. These proteins posses a protein disulphide isomerase like domain that is not found within the aligned region of this family.
NAGLU	Alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (NAGLU). Alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase, a lysosomal enzyme required for the stepwise degradation of heparan sulfate. Mutations on the alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (NAGLU) gene can lead to Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS IIIB; or Sanfilippo syndrome type B) characterised by neurological dysfunction but relatively mild somatic manifestations.
Lgl_C	Lethal giant larvae(Lgl) like, C-terminal. The Lethal giant larvae (Lgl) tumour suppressor family is conserved from yeast to mammals. The Lgl family functions in cell polarity, at least in part, by regulating SNARE-mediated membrane delivery events at the cell surface. The N-terminal half of Lgl members contains WD40 repeats (see pfam00400), while the C-terminal half appears specific to the family.
TniQ	TniQ. This family consists of several bacterial TniQ proteins. TniQ along with TniA and B is involved in the transposition of the mercury-resistance transposon Tn5053 which carries the mer operon. It has been suggested that the tni genes are involved in the dissemination of integrons.
D123	D123. This family contains a number of eukaryotic D123 proteins approximately 330 residues long. It has been shown that mutated variants of D123 exhibit temperature-dependent differences in their degradation rate. D123 proteins are regulators of eIF2, the central regulator of translational initiation.
Nucleoside_tran	Nucleoside transporter. This is a family of nucleoside transporters. In mammalian cells nucleoside transporters transport nucleoside across the plasma membrane and are essential for nucleotide synthesis via the salvage pathways for cells that lack their own de novo synthesis pathways. Also in this family is mouse and human nucleolar protein HNP36 a protein of unknown function; although it has been hypothesised to be a plasma membrane nucleoside transporter.
PAPS_reduct	Phosphoadenosine phosphosulfate reductase family. This domain is found in phosphoadenosine phosphosulfate (PAPS) reductase enzymes or PAPS sulfotransferase. PAPS reductase is part of the adenine nucleotide alpha hydrolases superfamily also including N type ATP PPases and ATP sulphurylases. The enzyme uses thioredoxin as an electron donor for the reduction of PAPS to phospho-adenosine-phosphate (PAP). It is also found in NodP nodulation protein P from Rizobium which has ATP sulfurylase activity (sulfate adenylate transferase).
Abi	CAAX amino terminal protease family. Members of this family are probably proteases (after a prenyl group is attached to the Cys residue in the C-terminal CAAX motif of a protein, the AAX tripeptide is removed by one of the CAAX prenyl proteases). The family contains the CAAX prenyl protease. The proteins contain a highly conserved Glu-Glu motif at the amino end of the alignment. The alignment also contains two histidine residues that may be involved in zinc binding.
Ribosomal_L37	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L37. This family includes yeast MRPL37 a mitochondrial ribosomal protein.
FSA_C	Fragile site-associated protein C-terminus. This is the conserved N-terminal half of the protein KIAA1109 which is the fragile site-associated protein FSA. Genome-wide-association studies showed this protein to linked to the susceptibility to coeliac disease. The protein may also be associated with polycystic kidney disease.
Hydrolase	haloacid dehalogenase-like hydrolase. This family are structurally different from the alpha/ beta hydrolase family (pfam00561). This family includes L-2-haloacid dehalogenase, epoxide hydrolases and phosphatases. The structure of the family consists of two domains. One is an inserted four helix bundle, which is the least well conserved region of the alignment, between residues 16 and 96 of (S)-2-haloacid dehalogenase from Pseudomonas sp. CBS3. The rest of the fold is composed of the core alpha/beta domain.
Fra10Ac1	Folate-sensitive fragile site protein Fra10Ac1. This entry represents the full-length proteins in which, in higher eukaryotes, the nested domain EDSLL lies. Fra10Ac1 is a highly conserved protein, of unknown function that is nuclear and highly expressed in brain.
DUF971	Protein of unknown function (DUF971). This family consists of several short bacterial proteins and one sequence from Oryza sativa. The function of this family is unknown.
H_PPase	Inorganic H+ pyrophosphatase. The H+ pyrophosphatase is an transmembrane proton pump involved in establishing the H+ electrochemical potential difference between the vacuole lumen and the cell cytosol. Vacuolar-type H(+)-translocating inorganic pyrophosphatases have long been considered to be restricted to plants and to a few species of phototrophic bacteria. However, in recent investigations, these pyrophosphatases have been found in organisms as disparate as thermophilic Archaea and parasitic protists.
ZF-HD_dimer	ZF-HD protein dimerisation region. This family of proteins has are plant transcription factors, and have been named ZF-HD for zinc finger homeodomain proteins, on the basis of similarity to proteins of known structure. This region is thought to be involved in the formation of homo and heterodimers, and may form a zinc finger.
GspL	General secretion pathway protein L (GspL). This family consists of general secretion pathway protein L sequences from several gram-negative bacteria. The general secretion pathway of gram-negative bacteria is responsible for extracellular secretion of a number of different proteins, including proteases and toxins. This pathway supports secretion of proteins across the cell envelope in two distinct steps, in which the second step, involving translocation through the outer membrane, is assisted by at least 13 different gene products. GspL is predicted to contain a large cytoplasmic domain and has been shown to interact with the autophosphorylating cytoplasmic membrane protein GspE. It is thought that the tri-molecular complex of GspL, GspE and GspM might be involved in regulating the opening and closing of the secretion pore and/or transducing energy to the site of outer membrane translocation.
Peptidase_M3	Peptidase family M3. This is the Thimet oligopeptidase family, large family of mammalian and bacterial oligopeptidases that cleave medium sized peptides. The group also contains mitochondrial intermediate peptidase which is encoded by nuclear DNA but functions within the mitochondria to remove the leader sequence.
TLD	TLD. This domain is predicted to be an enzyme and is often found associated with pfam01476.
YgbB	YgbB family. The ygbB protein is a putative enzyme of deoxy-xylulose pathway (terpenoid biosynthesis).
HemX	HemX. This family consists of several bacterial HemX proteins. The hemX gene is not essential for haem synthesis in B. subtilis. HemX is a polytopic membrane protein which by an unknown mechanism down-regulates the level of HemA.
YycH	YycH protein. This family contains the bacterial protein YycH which is approximately 450 residues long. YycH plays a role in signal transduction and is found immediately downstream of the essential histidine kinase YycG. YycG forms a two component system together with its cognate response regulator YycF. PhoA fusion studies have shown that YycH is transported across the cytoplasmic protein. It is postulated that YycH functions as an antagonist to YycG. The molecule is made up of three domains, and has a novel three-dimensional structure. The N-terminal domain features a calcium binding site and the central domain contains two conserved loop regions.
Glucosamine_iso	Glucosamine-6-phosphate isomerases/6-phosphogluconolactonase. 
DUF828	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF828). This family consists of several plant proteins of unknown function.
PsaA_PsaB	Photosystem I psaA/psaB protein. 
EzrA	Septation ring formation regulator, EzrA. During the bacterial cell cycle, the tubulin-like cell-division protein FtsZ polymerises into a ring structure that establishes the location of the nascent division site. EzrA modulates the frequency and position of FtsZ ring formation.
DUF299	Domain of unknown function (DUF299). Family of bacterial proteins with no known function.
Pro_racemase	Proline racemase. This family consists of proline racemase (EC 5.1.1.4) proteins which catalyse the interconversion of L- and D-proline in bacteria. This family also contains several similar eukaryotic proteins including a sequence from Trypanosoma cruzi with B-cell mitogenic properties which has been characterised as a co-factor-independent proline racemase.
MRP-S33	Mitochondrial ribosomal subunit S27. This family of proteins corresponds to mitochondrial ribosomal subunit S27 in prokaryotes and to subunit S33 in humans. It is a small 106 residue protein.The evolutionary history of the mitoribosomal proteome that is encoded by a diverse subset of eukaryotic genomes, reveals an ancestral ribosome of alpha-proteobacterial descent that more than doubled its protein content in most eukaryotic lineages. Several new MRPs have originated via duplication of existing MRPs as well as by recruitment from outside of the mitoribosomal proteome.
DUF296	Domain of unknown function (DUF296). This putative domain is found in proteins that contain AT-hook motifs pfam02178, which strongly suggests a DNA-binding function for the proteins as a whole, however the function of this domain is unknown.
Chlor_dismutase	Chlorite dismutase. This family contains chlorite dismutase enzymes of bacterial and archaeal origin. This enzyme catalyses the disproportionation of chlorite into chloride and oxygen. Note that many family members are hypothetical proteins.
DUF2298	Uncharacterized membrane protein (DUF2298). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
DUF1442	Protein of unknown function (DUF1442). This family consists of several hypothetical Arabidopsis thaliana proteins of around 225 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF1770	Fungal protein of unknown function (DUF1770). The function of this family is unknown. These proteins are rather dissimilar except for a single strongly conserved motif (PDLRFEQ).
Kunitz_legume	Trypsin and protease inhibitor. 
SpecificRecomb	Site-specific recombinase. Members of this family of bacterial proteins are found in various putative site-specific recombinase transmembrane proteins.
P21-Arc	ARP2/3 complex ARPC3 (21 kDa) subunit. The seven component ARP2/3 actin-organising complex is involved in actin assembly and function.
Uso1_p115_C	Uso1 / p115 like vesicle tethering protein, C terminal region. Also known as General vesicular transport factor, Transcytosis associate protein (TAP) and Vesicle docking protein, this myosin-shaped molecule consists of an N-terminal globular head region, a coiled-coil tail which mediates dimerisation, and a short C-terminal acidic region. p115 tethers COP1 vesicles to the Golgi by binding the coiled coil proteins giantin (on the vesicles) and GM130 (on the Golgi), via its C-terminal acidic region. It is required for intercisternal transport in the golgi stack. This family consists of the acidic C-terminus, which binds to the golgins giantin and GM130. p115 is thought to juxtapose two membranes by binding giantin with one acidic region, and GM130 with another.
Bunya_G2	Bunyavirus glycoprotein G2. Bunyavirus has three genomic segments: small (S), middle-sized (M), and large (L). The S segment encodes the nucleocapsid and a non-structural protein. The M segment codes for two glycoproteins, G1 and G2, and another non-structural protein (NSm). The L segment codes for an RNA polymerase. This family contains the G2 glycoprotein which interacts with the pfam03557 G1 glycoprotein.
Helicase_C	Helicase conserved C-terminal domain. The Prosite family is restricted to DEAD/H helicases, whereas this domain family is found in a wide variety of helicases and helicase related proteins. It may be that this is not an autonomously folding unit, but an integral part of the helicase.
Fumble	Fumble. Fumble is required for cell division in Drosophila. Mutants lacking fumble exhibit abnormalities in bipolar spindle organisation, chromosome segregation, and contractile ring formation. Analyses have demonstrated that encodes three protein isoforms, all of which contain a domain with high similarity to the pantothenate kinases of A. nidulans and mouse. A role of fumble in membrane synthesis has been proposed.
Fib_alpha	Fibrinogen alpha chain. Fibrinogen is a protein involved in platelet aggregation and is essential for the coagulation of blood. This domain forms part of the central coiled coiled region of the protein which is formed from two sets of three non-identical chains (alpha, beta and gamma).
bZIP_2	Basic region leucine zipper. 
Gelsolin	Gelsolin repeat. 
Sprouty	Sprouty protein (Spry). This family consists of eukaryotic Sprouty protein homologues. Sprouty proteins have been revealed as inhibitors of the Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade, a pathway crucial for developmental processes initiated by activation of various receptor tyrosine kinases. The sprouty gene has found to be expressed in the the brain, cochlea, nasal organs, teeth, salivary gland, lungs, digestive tract, kidneys and limb buds in mice.
CRCB	CrcB-like protein. CRCB is a putative integral membrane protein possibly involved in chromosome condensation. Over expression in Escherichia coli also leads to camphor resistance.
STAS	STAS domain. The STAS (after Sulphate Transporter and AntiSigma factor antagonist) domain is found in the C terminal region of Sulphate transporters and bacterial antisigma factor antagonists. It has been suggested that this domain may have a general NTP binding function.
DUF894	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF894). This family consists of several bacterial proteins, many of which are annotated as putative transmembrane transport proteins.
NLE	NLE (NUC135) domain. This domain is located N terminal to WD40 repeats. It is found in the microtubule-associated yeast protein YTM1.
p450	Cytochrome P450. Cytochrome P450s are haem-thiolate proteins involved in the oxidative degradation of various compounds. They are particularly well known for their role in the degradation of environmental toxins and mutagens. They can be divided into 4 classes, according to the method by which electrons from NAD(P)H are delivered to the catalytic site. Sequence conservation is relatively low within the family - there are only 3 absolutely conserved residues - but their general topography and structural fold are highly conserved. The conserved core is composed of a coil termed the 'meander', a four-helix bundle, helices J and K, and two sets of beta-sheets. These constitute the haem-binding loop (with an absolutely conserved cysteine that serves as the 5th ligand for the haem iron), the proton-transfer groove and the absolutely conserved EXXR motif in helix K. While prokaryotic P450s are soluble proteins, most eukaryotic P450s are associated with microsomal membranes. their general enzymatic function is to catalyse regiospecific and stereospecific oxidation of non-activated hydrocarbons at physiological temperatures.
FlgH	Flagellar L-ring protein. 
Dynamin_M	Dynamin central region. This region lies between the GTPase domain, see pfam00350, and the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, see pfam00169.
RNA_pol_Rpc34	RNA polymerase Rpc34 subunit. Subunit specific to RNA Pol III, the tRNA specific polymerase. The C34 subunit of yeast RNA Pol III is part of a subcomplex of three subunits which have no counterpart in the other two nuclear RNA polymerases. This subunit interacts with TFIIIB70 and is therefore participates in Pol III recruitment.
VHP	Villin headpiece domain. 
Acyl-CoA_dh_M	Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, middle domain. Central domain of Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase has a beta-barrel fold.
Adeno_100	Late 100kD protein. The late 100kD protein is a non-structural viral protein involved in the transport of hexon from the cytoplasm to the nucleus.
SPC25	Microsomal signal peptidase 25 kDa subunit (SPC25). This family consists of several microsomal signal peptidase 25 kDa subunit proteins. Translocation of polypeptide chains across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane is triggered by signal sequences. Subsequently, signal recognition particle interacts with its membrane receptor and the ribosome-bound nascent chain is targeted to the ER where it is transferred into a protein-conducting channel. At some point, a second signal sequence recognition event takes place in the membrane and translocation of the nascent chain through the membrane occurs. The signal sequence of most secretory and membrane proteins is cleaved off at this stage. Cleavage occurs by the signal peptidase complex (SPC) as soon as the lumenal domain of the translocating polypeptide is large enough to expose its cleavage site to the enzyme. The signal peptidase complex is possibly also involved in proteolytic events in the ER membrane other than the processing of the signal sequence, for example the further digestion of the cleaved signal peptide or the degradation of membrane proteins. Mammalian signal peptidase is as a complex of five different polypeptide chains. This family represents the 25 kDa subunit (SPC25).
DUF630	Protein of unknown function (DUF630). This region is sometimes found at the N-terminus of putative plant bZIP proteins. Its function is not known.
zf-PARP	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and DNA-Ligase Zn-finger region. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase is an important regulatory component of the cellular response to DNA damage. The amino-terminal region of Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase consists of two PARP-type zinc fingers. This region acts as a DNA nick sensor.
DNA_pol_lambd_f	Fingers domain of DNA polymerase lambda. DNA polymerases catalyze the addition of dNMPs onto the 3-prime ends of DNA chains. There is a general polymerase fold consisting of three subdomains that have been likened to the fingers, palm, and thumb of a right hand. DNA_pol_lambd_f is the central three-helical region of DNA polymerase lambda referred to as the F and G helices of the fingers domain. Contacts with DNA involve this conserved helix-hairpin-helix motif in the fingers region which interacts with the primer strand. This motif is common to several DNA binding proteins and confers a sequence-independent interaction with the DNA backbone.
DUF63	Membrane protein of unknown function DUF63. Proteins found in Archaebacteria of unknown function. These proteins are probably transmembrane proteins.
DPM3	Dolichol-phosphate mannosyltransferase subunit 3 (DPM3). This family corresponds to subunit 3 of dolichol-phosphate mannosyltransferase, an enzyme which generates mannosyl donors for glycosylphosphatidylinositols, N-glycan and protein O- and C-mannosylation. DPM3 is an integral membrane protein and plays a role in stabilising the dolichol-phosphate mannosyl transferase complex.
AsnC_trans_reg	AsnC family. The AsnC family is a family of similar bacterial transcription regulatory proteins.
Adeno_VII	Adenoviral core protein VII. The function of this protein is unknown. It has a conserved amino terminus of 50 residues followed by a positively charged tail, suggesting it may interact with nucleic acid. The major core protein of the adenovirus, protein VII, was found to be associated with viral DNA throughout infection. The precursor to protein VII were shown to be in vivo and in vitro acceptors of ADP-ribose. The ADP-ribosylated core proteins were assembled into mature virus particles. ADP-ribosylation of adenovirus core proteins may have a role in virus decapsidation.
NMT1	NMT1/THI5 like. This family contains the NMT1 and THI5 proteins. These proteins are proposed to be required for the biosynthesis of the pyrimidine moiety of thiamine. They are regulated by thiamine.
Bac_globin	Bacterial-like globin. This family of heme binding proteins are found mainly in bacteria. However they can also be found in some protozoa and plants as well.
Vinculin	Vinculin family. 
Secretin	Bacterial type II and III secretion system protein. 
Herpes_LMP2	Gammaherpesvirus latent membrane protein (LMP2) protein. This family consists of several Gammaherpesvirus latent membrane protein (LMP2) proteins. Epstein-Barr virus is a human Gammaherpesvirus that infects and establishes latency in B lymphocytes in vivo. The latent membrane protein 2 (LMP2) gene is expressed in latently infected B cells and encodes two protein isoforms, LMP2A and LMP2B, that are identical except for an additional N-terminal 119 aa cytoplasmic domain which is present in the LMP2A isoform. LMP2A is thought to play a key role in either the establishment or the maintenance of latency and/or the reactivation of productive infection from the latent state. The significance of LMP2B and its role in pathogenesis remain unclear.
GCFC	GC-rich sequence DNA-binding factor-like protein. Sequences found in this family are similar to a region of a human GC-rich sequence DNA-binding factor homolog. This is thought to be a protein involved in transcriptional regulation due to partial homologies to a transcription repressor and histone-interacting protein.
FtsJ	FtsJ-like methyltransferase. This family consists of FtsJ from various bacterial and archaeal sources FtsJ is a methyltransferase, but actually has no effect on cell division. FtsJ's substrate is the 23S rRNA. The 1.5 A crystal structure of FtsJ in complex with its cofactor S-adenosylmethionine revealed that FtsJ has a methyltransferase fold. This family also includes the N terminus of flaviviral NS5 protein. It has been hypothesised that the N-terminal domain of NS5 is a methyltransferase involved in viral RNA capping.
PRAI	N-(5'phosphoribosyl)anthranilate (PRA) isomerase. 
Erv26	Transmembrane adaptor Erv26. Erv26 is an integral membrane protein that is packed into COPII vesicles and cycles between the ER and Golgi compartments. It directs pro-alkaline phosphatase into endoplasmic reticulum-derived COPII transport vesicles.
HCR	Alpha helical coiled-coil rod protein (HCR). This family consists of several mammalian alpha helical coiled-coil rod HCR proteins. The function of HCR is unknown but it has been implicated in psoriasis in humans and is thought to affect keratinocyte proliferation.
Mannosyl_trans	Mannosyltransferase (PIG-M). PIG-M has a DXD motif. The DXD motif is found in many glycosyltransferases that utilise nucleotide sugars. It is thought that the motif is involved in the binding of a manganese ion that is required for association of the enzymes with nucleotide sugar substrates.
DUF1635	Protein of unknown function (DUF1635). The members of this family include sequences that are parts of hypothetical proteins expressed by plant species. The region in question is about 170 amino acids long.
S1	S1 RNA binding domain. The S1 domain occurs in a wide range of RNA associated proteins. It is structurally similar to cold shock protein which binds nucleic acids. The S1 domain has an OB-fold structure.
Toprim	Toprim domain. This is a conserved region from DNA primase. This corresponds to the Toprim domain common to DnaG primases, topoisomerases, OLD family nucleases and RecR proteins. Both DnaG motifs IV and V are present in the alignment, the DxD (V) motif may be involved in Mg2+ binding and mutations to the conserved glutamate (IV) completely abolish DnaG type primase activity. DNA primase EC:2.7.7.6 is a nucleotidyltransferase it synthesises the oligoribonucleotide primers required for DNA replication on the lagging strand of the replication fork; it can also prime the leading stand and has been implicated in cell division. This family also includes the atypical archaeal A subunit from type II DNA topoisomerases. Type II DNA topoisomerases catalyse the relaxation of DNA supercoiling by causing transient double strand breaks.
Cas_Csy2	CRISPR-associated protein (Cas_Csy2). CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) is a widespread family of prokaryotic direct repeats with spacers of unique sequence between consecutive repeats. This entry, typified by YPO2464 of Yersinia pestis, is a CRISPR-associated (Cas) entry strictly associated with the Ypest subtype of CRISPR/Cas locus. It is designated Csy2, for CRISPR/Cas Subtype Ypest protein 2.
Amidohydro_2	Amidohydrolase. These proteins are amidohydrolases that are related to pfam01979.
POPLD	POPLD (NUC188) domain. This domain is found in POP1-like nucleolar proteins.
His_kinase	Histidine kinase. This family represents a region within bacterial histidine kinase enzymes. Two-component signal transduction systems such as those mediated by histidine kinase are integral parts of bacterial cellular regulatory processes, and are used to regulate the expression of genes involved in virulence. Members of this family often contain pfam02518 and/or pfam00672.
Ribosomal_L2	Ribosomal Proteins L2, RNA binding domain. 
DUF889	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF889). The majority of members in this family are from plant species although it does contain some Caenorhabditis elegans sequences. Most of the sequences in the family are described as hypothetical, however some are putative helicases.
DC_STAMP	DC-STAMP-like protein. This is a family of sequences which are similar to a region of the dendritic cell-specific transmembrane protein (DC-STAMP). This is thought to be a novel receptor protein that shares no identity with other multimembrane-spanning proteins. It is thought to have seven putative transmembrane regions, two of which are found in the region featured in this family. DC-STAMP is also described as having potential N-linked glycosylation sites and a potential phosphorylation site for PKC, but these are not conserved throughout the family.
Treacle	Treacher Collins syndrome protein Treacle. 
MTS	Methyltransferase small domain. This domain is found in ribosomal RNA small subunit methyltransferase C as well as other methyltransferases.
Esterase	Putative esterase. This family contains Esterase D. However it is not clear if all members of the family have the same function. This family is related to the pfam00135 family.
Hs1pro-1_C	Hs1pro-1 protein C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 270 residues) of a number of plant Hs1pro-1 proteins, which are believed to confer nematode resistance.
NTP_transf_2	Nucleotidyltransferase domain. Members of this family belong to a large family of nucleotidyltransferases. This family includes kanamycin nucleotidyltransferase (KNTase) which is a plasmid-coded enzyme responsible for some types of bacterial resistance to aminoglycosides. KNTase in-activates antibiotics by catalysing the addition of a nucleotidyl group onto the drug.
YjgP_YjgQ	Predicted permease YjgP/YjgQ family. Members of this family are predicted integral membrane proteins of unknown function. They are about 350 amino acids long and contain about 6 transmembrane regions. They are predicted to be permeases although there is no verification of this.
TraB_pillus	TraB pilus assembly protein. This family consists of several bacterial TraB pilus assembly proteins. TraB is know to be essential for piliation and transfer but very little is known about its specific role in this process. It has been suggested that TraB extends into the periplasmic space and is anchored in the inner membrane via a single transmembrane segment near the N terminus. It is also thought that TraB may interact with TraP, in order to stabilise the proposed transmembrane complex formed by the tra operon products.
Ran_BP1	RanBP1 domain. 
ASD1	Apx/Shroom domain ASD1. This region is found in the actin binding protein Shroom which mediates apical contriction in epithelial cells and is required for neural tube closure. ASD1 has been implicated directly in F-actin binding.
Erg28	Erg28 like protein. This is a family of integral membrane proteins, which may contain four transmembrane helices. Members of this family are thought to be involved in sterol C-4 demethylation. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae they may tether Erg26p (sterol dehydrogenase/decarboxylase) and Erg27p (3-ketoreductase) to the endoplasmic reticulum or may facilitate interaction between these proteins. The family contains a conserved arginine and histidine that may be functionally important.
7tm_6	7tm Odorant receptor. This family is composed of 7 transmembrane receptors, that are probably drosophila odorant receptors.
COBRA1	Cofactor of BRCA1 (COBRA1). This family consists of several cofactor of BRCA1 (COBRA1) like proteins. It is thought that COBRA1 along with BRCA1 is involved in chromatin unfolding. COBRA1 is recruited to the chromosome site by the first BRCT repeat of BRCA1, and is itself sufficient to induce chromatin unfolding. BRCA1 mutations that enhance chromatin unfolding also increase its affinity for, and recruitment of, COBRA1. It is thought that that reorganisation of higher levels of chromatin structure is an important regulated step in BRCA1-mediated nuclear functions.
Nop16	Ribosome biogenesis protein Nop16. Nop16 is a protein involved in ribosome biogenesis.
Adaptin_N	Adaptin N terminal region. This family consists of the N terminal region of various alpha, beta and gamma subunits of the AP-1, AP-2 and AP-3 adaptor protein complexes. The adaptor protein (AP) complexes are involved in the formation of clathrin-coated pits and vesicles. The N-terminal region of the various adaptor proteins (APs) is constant by comparison to the C-terminal which is variable within members of the AP-2 family; and it has been proposed that this constant region interacts with another uniform component of the coated vesicles.
Syntaxin	Syntaxin. Syntaxins are the prototype family of SNARE proteins. They usually consist of three main regions - a C-terminal transmembrane region, a central SNARE domain which is characteristic of and conserved in all syntaxins (pfam05739), and an N-terminal domain that is featured in this entry. This domain varies between syntaxin isoforms; in syntaxin 1A it is found as three alpha-helices with a left-handed twist. It may fold back on the SNARE domain to allow the molecule to adopt a 'closed' configuration that prevents formation of the core fusion complex - it thus has an auto-inhibitory role. The function of syntaxins is determined by their localisation. They are involved in neuronal exocytosis, ER-Golgi transport and Golgi-endosome transport, for example. They also interact with other proteins as well as those involved in SNARE complexes. These include vesicle coat proteins, Rab GTPases, and tethering factors.
Bet_v_I	Pathogenesis-related protein Bet v I family. 
DUF577	Family of unknown function (DUF577). Family of Arabidopsis thaliana proteins. Many of these members contain a repeated region.
PDEase_II	cAMP phosphodiesterases class-II. 
Gal_Lectin	Galactose binding lectin domain. 
SSB	Single-strand binding protein family. This family includes single stranded binding proteins and also the primosomal replication protein N (PriB). PriB forms a complex with PriA, PriC and ssDNA.
KIP1	KIP1-like protein. This is a family of sequences found exclusively in plants. They are similar to kinase interacting protein 1 (KIP1), which has been found to interact with the kinase domain of PRK1, a receptor-like kinase. This particular region contains two coiled-coils, which are described as motifs involved in protein-protein interactions. It has also been suggested that the protein's coiled- coils allow it to dimerise in vivo.
Sigma70_r4	Sigma-70, region 4. Region 4 of sigma-70 like sigma-factors are involved in binding to the -35 promoter element via a helix-turn-helix motif. Due to the way Pfam works, the threshold has been set artificially high to prevent overlaps with other helix-turn-helix families. Therefore there are many false negatives.
Lipocalin	Lipocalin / cytosolic fatty-acid binding protein family. Lipocalins are transporters for small hydrophobic molecules, such as lipids, steroid hormones, bilins, and retinoids. The family also encompasses the enzyme prostaglandin D synthase (EC:5.3.99.2). Alignment subsumes both the lipocalin and fatty acid binding protein signatures from PROSITE. This is supported on structural and functional grounds. The structure is an eight-stranded beta barrel.
A_thal_3526	Plant protein 1589 of unknown function (A_thal_3526). This plant-specific family of proteins is defined by an uncharacterised region 57 residues in length. It is found toward the N terminus of most proteins that contain it. Examples include at least several proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The function of the proteins are unknown.
PsbI	Photosystem II reaction centre I protein (PSII 4.8 kDa protein). This family consists of various Photosystem II (PSII) reaction centre I proteins or PSII 4.8 kDa proteins, PsbI, from the chloroplast genome of many plants and Cyanobacteria. PsbI is a small, integral membrane component of PSII the role of which is not clear. Synechocystis mutants lacking PsbI have 20-30% loss of PSII activity however the PSII complex is not destabilised.
SBP_bac_1	Bacterial extracellular solute-binding protein. This family also includes the bacterial extracellular solute-binding protein family POTD/POTF.
DUF2362	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2362). This is a family of proteins conserved from nematodes to humans. The function is not known.
Baculo_IE-1	Baculovirus immediate-early protein (IE-0). The Autographa californica multinucleocapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) ie-1 gene product (IE-1) is thought to play a central role in stimulating early viral transcription. IE-1 has been demonstrated to activate several early viral gene promoters and to negatively regulate the promoters of two other AcMNPV regulatory genes, ie-0 and ie-2. It is thought that that IE-1 negatively regulates the expression of certain genes by binding directly, or as part of a complex, to promoter regions containing a specific IE-1-binding motif (5'-ACBYGTAA-3') near their mRNA start sites.
DUF2466	Protein of unknown function (DUF2466). This family was named initially with reference to the Escherichia coli radC102 mutation which suggested that RadC was involved in repair of DNA lesions. However the relevant mutation has subsequently been shown to be in recG, where radC is in fact an allele of recG. In addition, a personal communication from Claverys, J-P, et al, indicates a total failure of all attempts to characterise a radiation-related function for RadC in Streptococcus pneumoniae, suggesting that it is not involved in repair of DNA lesions, in recombination during transformation, in gene conversion, nor in mismatch repair.
Tic22	Tic22-like family. The preprotein translocation at the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts so far involves five proteins: Tic110, Tic55, Tic40, Tic22 (this family) and Tic20. The molecular function of these proteins has not yet been established.
PRD_Mga	M protein trans-acting positive regulator (MGA) PRD domain. Mga is a DNA-binding protein that activates the expression of several important virulence genes in group A streptococcus in response to changing environmental conditions. This corresponds to the PRD like region.
DUF571	Protein of unknown function (DUF571). Family of hypothetical bacterial proteins.
ER_lumen_recept	ER lumen protein retaining receptor. 
PBD	P21-Rho-binding domain. Small domains that bind Cdc42p- and/or Rho-like small GTPases. Also known as the Cdc42/Rac interactive binding (CRIB).
BING4CT	BING4CT (NUC141) domain. This C terminal domain is found in the BING4 family of nucleolar WD40 repeat proteins.
Muskelin_N	Muskelin N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminal region of muskelin and is found in conjunction with several pfam01344 repeats. Muskelin is an intracellular, kelch repeat protein that is needed in cell-spreading responses to the matrix adhesion molecule, thrombospondin-1.
DUF884	Nucleopolyhedrovirus protein of unknown function (DUF884). This family consists of several hypothetical Nucleopolyhedrovirus proteins of unknown function.
DegT_DnrJ_EryC1	DegT/DnrJ/EryC1/StrS aminotransferase family. The members of this family are probably all pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent aminotransferase enzymes with a variety of molecular functions. The family includes StsA, StsC and StsS. The aminotransferase activity was demonstrated for purified StsC protein as the L-glutamine:scyllo-inosose aminotransferase EC:2.6.1.50, which catalyses the first amino transfer in the biosynthesis of the streptidine subunit of streptomycin.
Pkinase_C	Protein kinase C terminal domain. 
DUF1092	Protein of unknown function (DUF1092). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins of unknown function all from photosynthetic organisms including plants and cyanobacteria.
DAHP_synth_2	Class-II DAHP synthetase family. Members of this family are aldolase enzymes that catalyse the first step of the shikimate pathway.
DUF676	Putative serine esterase (DUF676). This family of proteins are probably serine esterase type enzymes with an alpha/beta hydrolase fold.
Ion_trans	Ion transport protein. This family contains Sodium, Potassium, Calcium ion channels. This family is 6 transmembrane helices in which the last two helices flank a loop which determines ion selectivity. In some sub-families (e.g. Na channels) the domain is repeated four times, whereas in others (e.g. K channels) the protein forms as a tetramer in the membrane. A bacterial structure of the protein is known for the last two helices but is not the Pfam family due to it lacking the first four helices
Pyridoxal_deC	Pyridoxal-dependent decarboxylase conserved domain. 
Ribosomal_S5	Ribosomal protein S5, N-terminal domain. 
Lipase_chap	Proteobacterial lipase chaperone protein. 
DUF626	Protein of unknown function (DUF626). Protein of unknown function, currently only identified in Brassicaceae.
Dicty_CAR	Slime mold cyclic AMP receptor. This family consists of cyclic AMP receptor (CAR) proteins from slime molds. CAR proteins are responsible for controlling development in Dictyostelium discoideum.
YchF-GTPase_C	Protein of unknown function (DUF933). This domain is found at the C terminus of the YchF GTP-binding protein and is possibly related to the ubiquitin-like and MoaD/ThiS superfamilies.
Hydant_A_N	Hydantoinase/oxoprolinase N-terminal region. This family is found at the N-terminus of the pfam01968 family.
GerA	Bacillus/Clostridium GerA spore germination protein. 
CBF	CBF/Mak21 family. 
Drf_FH1	Formin Homology Region 1. This region is found in some of the Diaphanous related formins (Drfs). It consists of low complexity repeats of around 12 residues.
Intg_mem_TP0381	Integral membrane protein (intg_mem_TP0381). This entry represents a family of hydrophobic proteins with seven predicted transmembrane alpha helices. Members are found in Bacillus subtilis (ywaF), TP0381 from Treponema pallidum (TP0381), Streptococcus pyogenes, Rhodococcus erythropolis, etc.
Paramyx_P_V	Paramyxovirus P/V phosphoprotein. Paramyxoviral P genes are able to generate more than one product, using alternative reading frames and RNA editing. The P gene encodes the structural phosphoprotein P. In addition, it encodes several non-structural proteins present in the infected cell but not in the virus particle. This family includes phosphoprotein P and the non-structural phosphoprotein V from different paramyxoviruses. Phosphoprotein P is essential for the activity of the RNA polymerase complex which it forms with another subunit, L pfam00946. Although all the catalytic activities of the polymerase are associated with the L subunit, its function requires specific interactions with phosphoprotein P. The P and V phosphoproteins are amino co-terminal, but diverge at their C-termini. This difference is generated by an RNA-editing mechanism in which one or two non-templated G residues are inserted into P-gene-derived mRNA. In measles virus and Sendai virus, one G residue is inserted and the edited transcript encodes the V protein. In mumps, simian virus type 5 and Newcastle disease virus, two G residues are inserted, and the edited transcript codes for the P protein. Being phosphoproteins, both P and V are rich in serine and threonine residues over their whole lengths. In addition, the V proteins are rich in cysteine residues at the C-termini.
Wyosine_form	Wyosine base formation. Some proteins in this family appear to be important in wyosine base formation in a subset of phenylalanine specific tRNAs. It has been proposed that they participates in converting tRNA(Phe)-m(1)G(37) to tRNA(Phe)-yW.
Alginate_lyase2	Alginate lyase. Alginate lyases are enzymes that degrade the linear polysaccharide alignate. They cleave the glycosidic linkage of alignate through a beta-elimination reaction. This family forms an all beta fold and is different to all alpha fold of pfam05426.
PurA	PurA ssDNA and RNA-binding protein. This family represents most of the length of the protein.
PSI_PsaE	Photosystem I reaction centre subunit IV / PsaE. PsaE is a 69 amino acid polypeptide from photosystem I present on the stromal side of the thylakoid membrane. The structure is comprised of a well-defined five-stranded beta-sheet similar to SH3 domains.
NicO	High-affinity nickel-transport protein. High affinity nickel transporters involved in the incorporation of nickel into H2-uptake hydrogenase and urease enzymes. Essential for the expression of catalytically active hydrogenase and urease. Ion uptake is dependent on proton motive force. HoxN in Alcaligenes eutrophus is thought to be an integral membrane protein with seven transmembrane helices. The family also includes a cobalt transporter.
FAD-oxidase_C	FAD linked oxidases, C-terminal domain. This domain has a ferredoxin-like fold.
YEATS	YEATS family. We have named this family the YEATS family, after `YNK7', `ENL', `AF-9', and `TFIIF small subunit'. This family also contains the GAS41 protein. All these proteins are thought to have a transcription stimulatory activity
Amino_oxidase	Flavin containing amine oxidoreductase. This family consists of various amine oxidases, including maze polyamine oxidase (PAO) and various flavin containing monoamine oxidases (MAO). The aligned region includes the flavin binding site of these enzymes. The family also contains phytoene dehydrogenases and related enzymes. In vertebrates MAO plays an important role regulating the intracellular levels of amines via there oxidation; these include various neurotransmitters, neurotoxins and trace amines. In lower eukaryotes such as aspergillus and in bacteria the main role of amine oxidases is to provide a source of ammonium. PAOs in plants, bacteria and protozoa oxidase spermidine and spermine to an aminobutyral, diaminopropane and hydrogen peroxide and are involved in the catabolism of polyamines. Other members of this family include tryptophan 2-monooxygenase, putrescine oxidase, corticosteroid binding proteins and antibacterial glycoproteins.
Cache_2	Cache domain. 
Dak1	Dak1 domain. This is the kinase domain of the dihydroxyacetone kinase family EC:2.7.1.29.
DUF1023	Alpha/beta hydrolase of unknown function (DUF1023). Family of uncharacterised proteins found in Actinobacteria. Members of this family have an alpha/beta hydrolase fold.
K-box	K-box region. The K-box region is commonly found associated with SRF-type transcription factors see pfam00319. The K-box is a possible coiled-coil structure. Possible role in multimer formation.
F420_oxidored	NADP oxidoreductase coenzyme F420-dependent. 
MdcE	Malonate decarboxylase gamma subunit (MdcE). This family consists of several bacterial malonate decarboxylase gamma subunit proteins. Malonate decarboxylase of Klebsiella pneumoniae consists of four different subunits and catalyses the conversion of malonate plus H+ to acetate and CO2. The catalysis proceeds via acetyl and malonyl thioester residues with the phosphribosyl-dephospho-CoA prosthetic group of the acyl carrier protein (ACP) subunit. MdcD and E together probably function as malonyl-S-ACP decarboxylase.
DUF1365	Protein of unknown function (DUF1365). This family consists of several bacterial and plant proteins of around 250 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
PEGA	PEGA domain. This domain is found in both archaea and bacteria and has similarity to S-layer (surface layer) proteins. It is named after the characteristic PEGA sequence motif found in this domain. The secondary structure of this domain is predicted to be beta-strands [Adindla et al. Comparative and Functional Genomics 2004; 5:2-16].
ALO	D-arabinono-1,4-lactone oxidase. This domain is specific to D-arabinono-1,4-lactone oxidase EC:1.1.3.-, which is involved in the final step of the D-erythroascorbic acid biosynthesis pathway.
Gmad1	Lipoprotein LpqB beta-propeller domain. The Gmad1 domain is found associated with the GerMN family, pfam10646, in bacterial spore formation. It is predicted to have a beta-propeller fold and to have a passive binding role rather than a catalytic function owing to the low number of conserved hydrophilic residues.
NUC189	NUC189 domain. This domain is found in nucleolar proteins.
Med12	Transcription mediator subunit Med12. Med12 is a negative regulator of the Gli3-dependent sonic hedgehog signalling pathway via its interaction with Gli3 within the RNA polymerase II transcriptional Mediator. A complex is formed between Med12, Med13, CDK8 and CycC which is responsible for suppression of transcription.
DUF593	Protein of unknown function, DUF593. 
PMT	Dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase. This is a family of Dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase proteins EC:2.4.1.109. These proteins are responsible for O-linked glycosylation of proteins, they catalyse the reaction:- Dolichyl phosphate D-mannose + protein <=> dolichyl phosphate + O-D-mannosyl-protein. Also in this family is Drosophila rotated abdomen protein which is a putative mannosyltransferase. This family appears to be distantly related to pfam02516 (A Bateman pers. obs.).
FTSW_RODA_SPOVE	Cell cycle protein. This entry includes the following members; FtsW, RodA, SpoVE
PhoD	PhoD-like phosphatase. 
DUF874	Helicobacter pylori protein of unknown function (DUF874). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins specific to Helicobacter pylori. The function of this family is unknown.
GILT	Gamma interferon inducible lysosomal thiol reductase (GILT). This family includes the two characterised human gamma-interferon-inducible lysosomal thiol reductase (GILT) sequences. It also contains several other eukaryotic putative proteins with similarity to GILT. The aligned region contains three conserved cysteine residues. In addition, the two GILT sequences possess a C-X(2)-C motif that is shared by some of the other sequences in the family. This motif is thought to be associated with disulphide bond reduction.
Herpes_heli_pri	Herpesvirus helicase-primase complex component. This family consists of several helicase-primase complex components from the Gammaherpesviruses.
Arteri_Gl	Arterivirus GL envelope glycoprotein. Arteriviruses encode 4 envelope proteins, Gl, Gs, M and N. Gl envelope protein, is encoded in ORF5, and is 30- 45 kDa in size. Gl is heterogenously glycosylated with N-acetyllactosamine in a cell-type-specific manner. The Gl glycoprotein expresses the neutralisation determinants.
FliD_C	Flagellar hook-associated protein 2 C-terminus. The flagellar hook-associated protein 2 (HAP2 or FliD) forms the distal end of the flagella, and plays a role in mucin specific adhesion of the bacteria. This alignment covers the C-terminal region of this family of proteins.
QRPTase_C	Quinolinate phosphoribosyl transferase, C-terminal domain. Quinolinate phosphoribosyl transferase (QPRTase) or nicotinate-nucleotide pyrophosphorylase EC:2.4.2.19 is involved in the de novo synthesis of NAD in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. It catalyses the reaction of quinolinic acid with 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP) in the presence of Mg2+ to give rise to nicotinic acid mononucleotide (NaMN), pyrophosphate and carbon dioxide. The QA substrate is bound between the C-terminal domain of one subunit, and the N-terminal domain of the other. The C-terminal domain has a 7 beta-stranded TIM barrel-like fold.
B56	Protein phosphatase 2A regulatory B subunit (B56 family). Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a major intracellular protein phosphatase that regulates multiple aspects of cell growth and metabolism. The ability of this widely distributed heterotrimeric enzyme to act on a diverse array of substrates is largely controlled by the nature of its regulatory B subunit. There are multiple families of B subunits (See also pfam01240), this family is called the B56 family.
tRNA_lig_CPD	Fungal tRNA ligase phosphodiesterase domain. This domain is found in fungal tRNA ligases and has cyclic phosphodiesterase activity. tRNA ligases are enzymes required for the splicing of precursor tRNA molecules containing introns.
SWIRM	SWIRM domain. This SWIRM domain is a small alpha-helical domain of about 85 amino acid residues found in chromosomal proteins. It contains a helix-turn helix motif and binds to DNA.
TRAUB	TRAUB (NUC102) domain. This C terminal domain is found in traube proteins.
Adeno_terminal	Adenoviral DNA terminal protein. This protein is covalently attached to the terminii of replicating DNA in vivo.
Utp13	Utp13 specific WD40 associated domain. Utp13 is a component of the five protein Pwp2 complex that forms part of a stable particle subunit independent of the U3 small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein that is essential for the initial assembly steps of the 90S pre-ribosome. Pwp2 is capable of interacting directly with the 35 S pre-rRNA 5' end.
Cyclin_N	Cyclin, N-terminal domain. Cyclins regulate cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs). One member is a Uracil-DNA glycosylase that is related to other cyclins. Cyclins contain two domains of similar all-alpha fold, of which this family corresponds with the N-terminal domain.
Transketolase_N	Transketolase, thiamine diphosphate binding domain. This family includes transketolase enzymes EC:2.2.1.1. and also partially matches to 2-oxoisovalerate dehydrogenase beta subunit EC:1.2.4.4. Both these enzymes utilise thiamine pyrophosphate as a cofactor, suggesting there may be common aspects in their mechanism of catalysis.
DUF810	Protein of unknown function (DUF810). This family consists of several plant proteins of unknown function.
TonB_dep_Rec	TonB dependent receptor. This model now only covers the conserved part of the barrel structure.
Aldolase	KDPG and KHG aldolase. This family includes the following members: 4-hydroxy-2-oxoglutarate aldolase (KHG-aldolase) Phospho-2-dehydro-3-deoxygluconate aldolase (KDPG-aldolase)
SMN	Survival motor neuron protein (SMN). This family consists of several eukaryotic survival motor neuron (SMN) proteins. The Survival of Motor Neurons (SMN) protein, the product of the spinal muscular atrophy-determining gene, is part of a large macromolecular complex (SMN complex) that functions in the assembly of spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs). The SMN complex functions as a specificity factor essential for the efficient assembly of Sm proteins on U snRNAs and likely protects cells from illicit, and potentially deleterious, non-specific binding of Sm proteins to RNAs.
Sclerostin	Sclerostin (SOST). This family contains several mammalian sclerostin (SOST) proteins. SOST is thought to suppress bone formation. Mutations of the SOST gene lead to sclerosteosis, a progressive sclerosing bone dysplasia with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. Radiologically, it is characterised by a generalised hyperostosis and sclerosis leading to a markedly thickened and sclerotic skull, with mandible, ribs, clavicles and all long bones also being affected. Due to narrowing of the foramina of the cranial nerves, facial nerve palsy, hearing loss and atrophy of the optic nerves can occur. Sclerosteosis is clinically and radiologically very similar to van Buchem disease, mainly differentiated by hand malformations and a large stature in sclerosteosis patients.
Nefa_Nip30_N	N-terminal domain of NEFA-interacting nuclear protein NIP30. This is a the N-terminal 100 amino acids of a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. The full-length protein has putatively been called NEFA-interacting nuclear protein NIP30, however no reference could be found to confirm this.
Peptidase_S9	Prolyl oligopeptidase family. 
DEC-1_N	DEC-1 protein, N terminal region. The defective chorion-1 gene (dec-1) in Drosophila encodes follicle cell proteins necessary for proper eggshell assembly. Multiple products of the dec-1 gene are formed by alternative RNA splicing and proteolytic processing. Cleavage products include S80 (80 kDa) which is incorporated into the eggshell, and further proteolysis of S80 gives S60 (60 kDa).
SEC-C	SEC-C motif. The SEC-C motif found in the C-terminus of the SecA protein, in the middle of some SWI2 ATPases and also solo in several proteins. The motif is predicted to chelate zinc with the CXC and C[HC] pairs that constitute the most conserved feature of the motif. It is predicted to be a potential nucleic acid binding domain.
IGR	IGR protein motif. This domain is found in fungal proteins and contains a conserved IGR motif. Its function is unknown.
DIM1	Mitosis protein DIM1. 
Zfx_Zfy_act	Zfx / Zfy transcription activation region. Zfx and Zfy are transcription factors implicated in mammalian sex determination. This region is found N terminal to multiple copies of a C2H2 Zinc finger (pfam00096). This region has been shown to activate transcription when fused to a GAL4 DNA binding domain.
FeThRed_A	Ferredoxin thioredoxin reductase variable alpha chain. 
Ribosomal_L31	Ribosomal protein L31. 
TRAP-gamma	Translocon-associated protein, gamma subunit (TRAP-gamma). This family consists of several eukaryotic translocon-associated protein, gamma subunit (TRAP-gamma) sequences. The translocation site (translocon), at which nascent polypeptides pass through the endoplasmic reticulum membrane, contains a component previously called 'signal sequence receptor' that is now renamed as 'translocon-associated protein' (TRAP). The TRAP complex is comprised of four membrane proteins alpha, beta, gamma and delta which are present in a stoichiometric relation, and are genuine neighbours in intact microsomes. The gamma subunit is predicted to span the membrane four times.
BRCA-2_OB1	BRCA2, oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide-binding, domain 1. Members of this family assume an OB fold, which consists of a highly curved five-stranded beta-sheet that closes on itself to form a beta-barrel. OB1 has a shallow groove formed by one face of the curved sheet and is demarcated by two loops, one between beta 1 and beta 2 and another between beta 4 and beta 5, which allows for weak single strand DNA binding. The domain also binds the 70-amino acid DSS1 (deleted in split-hand/split foot syndrome) protein, which was originally identified as one of three genes that map to a 1.5-Mb locus deleted in an inherited developmental malformation syndrome.
DUF2337	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2337). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
Arch_ATPase	Archaeal ATPase. This family contain a conserved P-loop motif that is involved in binding ATP. This family is almost exclusively found in archaebacteria and particularly in Methanococcus jannaschii that encodes sixteen members of this family.
DUF1010	Protein of unknown function (DUF1010). Family of plasmid encoded proteins with unknown function.
YqcI_YcgG	YqcI/YcgG family. This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised. The family include YqcI and YcgG from B. subtilis. The alignment contains a conserved FPC motif at the N-terminus and CPF at the C-terminus.
DUF1348	Protein of unknown function (DUF1348). This family consists of several highly conserved hypothetical proteins of around 150 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
ParA	ParA/MinD ATPase like. This family contains ATPases involved in plasmid partitioning. It also contains the cytosolic Fe-S cluster assembling factor NBP35 which is required for biogenesis and export of both ribosomal subunits.
DUF1512	Protein of unknown function (DUF1512). This family consists of several archaeal proteins of around 370 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
RNA_capsid	Calicivirus putative RNA polymerase/capsid protein. 
DUF836	Glutaredoxin-like domain (DUF836). These proteins are related to the pfam00462 family.
Herpes_BMRF2	Herpesvirus BMRF2 protein. 
N6_N4_Mtase	DNA methylase. Members of this family are DNA methylases. The family contains both N-4 cytosine-specific DNA methylases and N-6 Adenine-specific DNA methylases.
DDT	DDT domain. This domain is approximately 60 residues in length, and is predicted to be a DNA binding domain. The DDT domain is named after (DNA binding homeobox and Different Transcription factors). It is exclusively associated with nuclear domains, and is thought to be arranged into three alpha helices.
PIG-P	PIG-P. PIG-P (phosphatidylinositol N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase subunit P) is an enzyme involved in GPI anchor biosynthesis.
Herpes_Helicase	Helicase. This family consists of Helicases from the Herpes viruses. Helicases are responsible for the unwinding of DNA and are essential for replication and completion of the viral life cycle.
ATP-synt_Eps	Mitochondrial ATP synthase epsilon chain. This family constitutes the mitochondrial ATP synthase epsilon subunit. This is not to be confused with the bacterial epsilon subunit, which is homologous to the mitochondrial delta subunit (pfam00401 and pfam02823) The epsilon subunit is located in the extrinsic membrane section F1, which is the catalytic site of ATP synthesis. The epsilon subunit was not well ordered in the crystal structure of bovine F1, but it is known to be located in the stalk region of F1. E subunit is thought to be involved in the regulation of ATP synthase, since a null mutation increased oligomycin sensitivity and decreased inhibition by inhibitor protein IF1.
DUF2045	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2045). This entry is the conserved 250 residues of proteins of approximately 450 amino acids. It contains several highly conserved motifs including a CVxLxxxD motif.The function is unknown.
UFD1	Ubiquitin fusion degradation protein UFD1. Post-translational ubiquitin-protein conjugates are recognised for degradation by the ubiquitin fusion degradation (UFD) pathway. Several proteins involved in this pathway have been identified. This family includes UFD1, a 40kD protein that is essential for vegetative cell viability. The human UFD1 gene is expressed at high levels during embryogenesis, especially in the eyes and in the inner ear primordia and is thought to be important in the determination of ectoderm-derived structures, including neural crest cells. In addition, this gene is deleted in the CATCH-22 (cardiac defects, abnormal facies, thymic hypoplasia, cleft palate and hypocalcaemia with deletions on chromosome 22) syndrome. This clinical syndrome is associated with a variety of developmental defects, all characterised by microdeletions on 22q11.2. Two such developmental defects are the DiGeorge syndrome OMIM:188400, and the velo-cardio- facial syndrome OMIM:145410. Several of the abnormalities associated with these conditions are thought to be due to defective neural crest cell differentiation.
CAP_C	DE Adenylate cyclase associated (CAP) C terminal. 
7TM_GPCR_Sri	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Sri. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Sri is part of the Str superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
MaoC_dehydratas	MaoC like domain. The maoC gene is part of a operon with maoA which is involved in the synthesis of monoamine oxidase. The MaoC protein is found to share similarity with a wide variety of enzymes; estradiol 17 beta-dehydrogenase 4, peroxisomal hydratase-dehydrogenase-epimerase, fatty acid synthase beta subunit. Several bacterial proteins that are composed solely of this domain have (R)-specific enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. This domain is also present in the NodN nodulation protein N.
7TM_GPCR_Str	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srt. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srt is a member of the Str superfamily of chemoreceptors. Almost a quarter (22.5%) of str and srj family genes and pseudogenes in Caenorhabditis elegans appear to have been newly formed by gene duplications since the species split. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
PTEN_C2	C2 domain of PTEN tumour-suppressor protein. This is the C2 domain-like domain, in greek key form, of the PTEN protein, phosphatidyl-inositol triphosphate phosphatase, and it is the C-terminus. This domain may well include a CBR3 loop which means it plays a central role in membrane binding. This domain associates across an extensive interface with the N-terminal phosphatase domain DSPc (pfam00782) suggesting that the C2 domain productively positions the catalytic part of the protein on the membrane 1].
His_biosynth	Histidine biosynthesis protein. Proteins involved in steps 4 and 6 of the histidine biosynthesis pathway are contained in this family. Histidine is formed by several complex and distinct biochemical reactions catalysed by eight enzymes. The enzymes in this Pfam entry are called His6 and His7 in eukaryotes and HisA and HisF in prokaryotes. The structure of HisA is known to be a TIM barrel fold. In some archaeal HisA proteins the TIM barrel is composed of two tandem repeats of a half barrel. This family belong to the common phosphate binding site TIM barrel family.
Spore_permease	Spore germination protein. 
Granulin	Granulin. 
Ssl1	Ssl1-like. Ssl1-like proteins are 40kDa subunits of the Transcription factor II H complex.
Ribosomal_L16	Ribosomal protein L16p/L10e. 
DUF1969	Domain of unknown function (DUF1969). The N-terminal domain of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase is functionally uncharacterised, and adopts a structure consisting of an SH3-like barrel.
Ribonuc_red_sm	Ribonucleotide reductase, small chain. 
RNA_pol_Rpb5_C	RNA polymerase Rpb5, C-terminal domain. The assembly domain of Rpb5. The archaeal equivalent to this domain is subunit H. Subunit H lacks the N-terminal domain.
Sucrose_synth	Sucrose synthase. Sucrose synthases catalyse the synthesis of sucrose from UDP-glucose and fructose. This family includes the bulk of the sucrose synthase protein. However the carboxyl terminal region of the sucrose synthases belongs to the glycosyl transferase family pfam00534.
Nucleopor_Nup85	Nup85 Nucleoporin. A family of nucleoporins conserved from yeast to human.
GTP1_OBG	GTP1/OBG. The N-terminal domain of the Spo0B-associated GTP-binding protein has the OBG fold, which is formed by three glycine-rich regions inserted into a small 8-stranded beta-sandwich these regions form six left-handed collagen-like helices packed and H-bonded together.
SDH_alpha	Serine dehydratase alpha chain. L-serine dehydratase (EC:4.2.1.13) is a found as a heterodimer of alpha and beta chain or as a fusion of the two chains in a single protein. This enzyme catalyses the deamination of serine to form pyruvate. This enzyme is part of the gluconeogenesis pathway.
G6PD_C	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, C-terminal domain. 
LST	Lipooligosaccharide sialyltransferase (LST). This family consists of several bacterial lipooligosaccharide sialyltransferases similar to the Haemophilus ducreyi LST protein. Haemophilus ducreyi is the cause of the sexually transmitted disease chancroid and produces a lipooligosaccharide (LOS) containing a terminal sialyl N-acetyllactosamine trisaccharide.
Peptidase_S15	X-Pro dipeptidyl-peptidase (S15 family). 
DUF2413	Protein of unknown function (DUF2413). This is a family of proteins conserved in fungi. The function is not known.
DUF2053	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2053). This entry is of the conserved N-terminal 150 residues of proteins conserved from plants to humans. The function is unknown although some annotation suggests it to be a transmembrane protein.
CDC73	RNA pol II accessory factor, Cdc73 family. 
PLAC8	PLAC8 family. This family includes the Placenta-specific gene 8 protein.
TauD	Taurine catabolism dioxygenase TauD, TfdA family. This family consists of taurine catabolism dioxygenases of the TauD, TfdA family. TauD from Escherichia coli is a alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent taurine dioxygenase. This enzyme catalyses the oxygenolytic release of sulfite from taurine. TfdA from Burkholderia sp. is a 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid/alpha-ketoglutarate dioxygenase. TfdA from Alcaligenes eutrophus JMP134 is a 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate monooxygenase. Also included are gamma-Butyrobetaine hydroxylase enzymes EC:1.14.11.1.
Hexokinase_2	Hexokinase. Hexokinase (EC:2.7.1.1) contains two structurally similar domains represented by this family and pfam00349. Some members of the family have two copies of each of these domains.
His_leader	Histidine operon leader peptide. This family consists of the leader peptide of the histidine (his) operon. The his operon contains all the genes necessary for histidine biosynthesis. The region corresponding to the untranslated 5' end of the transcript, named the his leader region, displays the typical features of the T box transcriptional attenuation mechanism which is involved in the regulation of many amino acid biosynthetic operons.
Utp12	Dip2/Utp12 Family. This domain is found at the C-terminus of proteins containing WD40 repeats. These proteins are part of the U3 ribonucleoprotein the yeast protein is called Utp12 or DIP2.
RE_Alw26IDE	Type II restriction endonuclease (RE_Alw26IDE). Members of this entry are type II restriction endonucleases of the Alw26I/Eco31I/Esp3I family. Characterised specificities of the three members are GGTCTC, CGTCTC and the shared subsequence GTCTC.
A2M_N	Alpha-2-macroglobulin family N-terminal region. This is the N-terminal region of the alpha-2-macroglobulin family.
SRP54	SRP54-type protein, GTPase domain. This family includes relatives of the G-domain of the SRP54 family of proteins.
DUF2046	Uncharacterized conserved protein H4 (DUF2046). This is the conserved N-terminal 350 residues of a family of proteins of unknown function possibly containing a coiled-coil domain.
Sec10	Exocyst complex component Sec10. This family contains the Sec10 component (approximately 650 residues long) of the eukaryotic exocyst complex, which specifically affects the synthesis and delivery of secretory and basolateral plasma membrane proteins.
DUF833	Protein of unknown function (DUF833). This family is found in eukaryotes, prokaryotes and viruses and has no known function. The Ser/Thr-rich protein T10 has been found to be expressed during early embryogenesis in mice.
Pollen_allerg_1	Pollen allergen. This family contains allergens lol PI, PII and PIII from Lolium perenne.
NHL	NHL repeat. The NHL (NCL-1, HT2A and LIN-41) repeat is found in multiple tandem copies. It is about 40 residues long and resembles the WD repeat pfam00400. The repeats have a catalytic activity in the peptidyl-glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), proteolysis has shown that the Peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL) activity is localised to the repeats. The human tripartite motif-containing protein 32 interacts with the activation domain of Tat. This interaction is me diated by the NHL repeats.
Herpes_U30	Herpes virus tegument protein U30. This family is named after the human herpesvirus protein, but has been characterised in cytomegalovirus as UL47. Cytomegalovirus UL47 is a component of the tegument, which is a protein layer surrounding the viral capsid. UL47 co-precipitates with UL48 and UL69 tegument proteins, and the major capsid protein UL86. A UL47-containing complex is thought to be involved in the release of viral DNA from the disassembling virus particle.
Agenet	Agenet domain. This domain is related to the TUDOR domain pfam00567. The function of the agenet domain is unknown. This family currently only matches one of the two Agenet domains in the FMR proteins.
DUF1227	Protein of unknown function (DUF1227). This family represents a conserved region within a number of eukaryotic DNA repair helicases (EC:3.6.1.-).
Thionin	Plant thionin. 
Apt1	Golgi-body localisation protein domain. This is the C-terminus of a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. The plant members are localised to the Golgi proteins and appear to regulate membrane trafficking, as they are required for rapid vesicle accumulation at the tip of the pollen tube. The C-terminus probably contains the Golgi localisation signal and it is well-conserved.
FMO-like	Flavin-binding monooxygenase-like. This family includes FMO proteins and cyclohexanone monooxygenase.
Herpes_ori_bp	Origin of replication binding protein. This Pfam family represents the herpesvirus origin of replication binding protein, probably involved in DNA replication.
ATP-synt_ab_N	ATP synthase alpha/beta family, beta-barrel domain. This family includes the ATP synthase alpha and beta subunits the ATP synthase associated with flagella.
Glyco_transf_10	Glycosyltransferase family 10 (fucosyltransferase). This family of Fucosyltransferases are the enzymes transferring fucose from GDP-Fucose to GlcNAc in an alpha1,3 linkage. This family is know as glycosyltransferase family 10.
DUF1537	Protein of unknown function, DUF1537. This conserved region is found in proteins of unknown function in a range of Proteobacteria as well as the Gram-positive Oceanobacillus iheyensis.
SurA_N	SurA N-terminal domain. This domain is found at the N-terminus of the chaperone SurA. It is a helical domain of unknown function. The C-terminus of the SurA protein folds back and forms part of this domain also but is not included in the current alignment.
DUF208	Uncharacterized BCR, COG1636. 
Carla_C4	Carlavirus putative nucleic acid binding protein. This family of carlavirus nucleic acid binding proteins includes a motif for a potential C-4 type zinc finger this has four highly conserved cysteine residues and is a conserved feature of the carlaviruses 3' terminal ORF. These proteins may function as viral transcriptional regulators. The carlavirus family includes garlic latent virus and potato virus S and M, these viruses are positive strand, ssRNA with no DNA stage.
WRKY	WRKY DNA -binding domain. 
Tymo_45kd_70kd	Tymovirus 45/70Kd protein. Tymoviruses are single stranded RNA viruses. This family includes a protein of unknown function that has been named based on its molecular weight. Tymoviruses such as the ononis yellow mosaic tymovirus encode only three proteins. Of these two are overlapping this protein overlaps a larger ORF that is thought to be the polymerase.
Tmp39	Putative transmembrane protein. This is a family of conserved proteins found from worms to humans. They are putative transmembrane proteins but the function is unknown.
DUF1431	Protein of unknown function (DUF1431). This family contains a number of Drosophila melanogaster proteins of unknown function. These contain several conserved cysteine residues.
Ribosomal_L37e	Ribosomal protein L37e. This family includes ribosomal protein L37 from eukaryotes and archaebacteria. The family contains many conserved cysteines and histidines suggesting that this protein may bind to zinc.
Transglut_prok	Microbial transglutaminase. Microbial transglutaminase (MTG) catalyses an acyl transfer reaction by means of a Cys-Asp diad mechanism, in which the gamma-carboxyamide groups of peptide-bound glutamine residues act as the acyl donors. The MTG molecule forms a single, compact domain belonging to the alpha+beta folding class, containing 11 alpha-helices and 8 beta-strands. The alpha-helices and the beta-strands are concentrated mainly at the amino and carboxyl ends of the polypeptide, respectively. These secondary structures are arranged so that a beta-sheet is surrounded by alpha-helices, which are clustered into three regions.
MENTAL	Cholesterol-capturing domain. Human meta-static lymph node (MLN) 64 is a late endosomal membrane protein, and carries this MENTAL (MLN64N-terminal) domain at its N-terminus. The domain is composed of four trans-membrane helices with three short intervening loops. The function of the domain is to capture cholesterol and pass it to the associated START domain pfam01852 for transfer to a cytosolic acceptor protein or membrane. In mammals, the MENTAL domain is involved in the localisation of MLN64 and MENTHO in late endosomes, and also in homo-and of hetero-interactions of these two proteins.
PAP_fibrillin	PAP_fibrillin. This family identifies a conserved region found in a number of plastid lipid-associated proteins (PAPs), and in a number of putative fibrillin proteins.
zf-primase	Primase zinc finger. This zinc finger is found in yeast Mcm10 proteins and DnaG-type primases.
dUTPase	dUTPase. dUTPase hydrolyses dUTP to dUMP and pyrophosphate.
Maf	Maf-like protein. Maf is a putative inhibitor of septum formation in eukaryotes, bacteria, and archaea.
Adeno_E3_CR2	Adenovirus E3 region protein CR2. Early region 3 (E3) of human adenoviruses (Ads) codes for proteins that appear to control viral interactions with the host. This region called CR2 (conserved region 1) is found in Adenovirus type 19 (a subgroup D virus) 49 Kd protein in the E3 region. CR2 is also found in the 20.1 Kd protein of subgroup B adenoviruses. The function of this 50 amino acid region is unknown.
LBP_BPI_CETP	LBP / BPI / CETP family, N-terminal domain. The N and C terminal domains of the LBP/BPI/CETP family are structurally similar.
NAD_Gly3P_dh_C	NAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase C-terminus. NAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) catalyses the interconversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and L-glycerol-3-phosphate. This family represents the C-terminal substrate-binding domain.
Oxidored_q6	NADH ubiquinone oxidoreductase, 20 Kd subunit. 
Hepatitis_core	Hepatitis core antigen. The core antigen of hepatitis viruses possesses a carboxyl terminus rich in arginine. On this basis it was predicted that the core antigen would bind DNA. There is some experimental evidence to support this.
BAAT_C	BAAT / Acyl-CoA thioester hydrolase C terminal. This catalytic domain is found at the C terminal of acyl-CoA thioester hydrolases and bile acid-CoA:amino acid N-acetyltransferases (BAAT).
MPP6	M-phase phosphoprotein 6. This is a family of M-phase phosphoprotein 6s which is necessary for generation of the 3' end of the 5.8S rRNA precursor. It preferentially binds to poly(C) and poly(U).
RPN7	26S proteasome subunit RPN7. RPN7 (known as the non ATPase regulatory subunit 6 in higher eukaryotes) is one of the lid subunits of the 26S proteasome and has been shown in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to be required for structural integrity. The 26S proteasome is is involved in the ATP-dependent degradation of ubiquitinated proteins.
Glycos_transf_1	Glycosyl transferases group 1. Mutations in this domain of subunit A of phosphatidylinositol N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase lead to disease (Paroxysmal Nocturnal haemoglobinuria). Members of this family transfer activated sugars to a variety of substrates, including glycogen, Fructose-6-phosphate and lipopolysaccharides. Members of this family transfer UDP, ADP, GDP or CMP linked sugars. The eukaryotic glycogen synthases may be distant members of this family.
ECM1	Extracellular matrix protein 1 (ECM1). This family consists of several eukaryotic extracellular matrix protein 1 (ECM1) sequences. ECM1 has been shown to regulate endochondral bone formation, stimulate the proliferation of endothelial cells and induce angiogenesis. Mutations in the ECM1 gene can cause lipoid proteinosis, a disorder which causes generalised thickening of skin, mucosae and certain viscera. Classical features include beaded eyelid papules and laryngeal infiltration leading to hoarseness.
APG5	Autophagy protein Apg5. Apg5 is directly required for the import of aminopeptidase I via the cytoplasm-to-vacuole targeting pathway.
DUF1000	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF1000). 
Tim17	Tim17/Tim22/Tim23 family. The pre-protein translocase of the mitochondrial outer membrane (Tom) allows the import of pre-proteins from the cytoplasm. Tom forms a complex with a number of proteins, including Tim17. Tim17 and Tim23 are thought to form the translocation channel of the inner membrane. This family includes Tim17, Tim22 and Tim23.
RNase_H2-Ydr279	Ydr279p protein family (RNase H2 complex component). RNases H are enzymes that specifically hydrolyse RNA when annealed to a complementary DNA and are present in all living organisms. In yeast RNase H2 is composed of a complex of three proteins (Rnh2Ap, Ydr279p and Ylr154p), this family represents the homologues of Ydr279p. It is not known whether non yeast proteins in this family fulfill the same function.
PapB	Adhesin biosynthesis transcription regulatory protein. This family includes PapB, DaaA, FanA, FanB, and AfaA.
PCI	PCI domain. This domain has also been called the PINT motif (Proteasome, Int-6, Nip-1 and TRIP-15).
TGS	TGS domain. The TGS domain is named after ThrRS, GTPase, and SpoT. Interestingly, TGS domain was detected also at the amino terminus of the uridine kinase from the spirochaete Treponema pallidum (but not any other organism, including the related spirochaete Borrelia burgdorferi). TGS is a small domain that consists of ~50 amino acid residues and is predicted to possess a predominantly beta-sheet structure. There is no direct information on the functions of the TGS domain, but its presence in two types of regulatory proteins (the GTPases and guanosine polyphosphate phosphohydrolases/synthetases) suggests a ligand (most likely nucleotide)-binding, regulatory role.
Albumin_I	Albumin I. The albumin I protein, a hormone-like peptide, stimulates kinase activity upon binding a membrane bound 43 kDa receptor. The structure of this domain reveals a knottin like fold, comprise of three beta strands.
Alg6_Alg8	ALG6, ALG8 glycosyltransferase family. N-linked (asparagine-linked) glycosylation of proteins is mediated by a highly conserved pathway in eukaryotes, in which a lipid (dolichol phosphate)-linked oligosaccharide is assembled at the endoplasmic reticulum membrane prior to the transfer of the oligosaccharide moiety to the target asparagine residues. This oligosaccharide is composed of Glc(3)Man(9)GlcNAc(2). The addition of the three glucose residues is the final series of steps in the synthesis of the oligosaccharide precursor. Alg6 transfers the first glucose residue, and Alg8 transfers the second one. In the human alg6 gene, a C->T transition, which causes Ala333 to be replaced with Val, has been identified as the cause of a congenital disorder of glycosylation, designated as type Ic OMIM:603147.
C1_3	C1-like domain. This short domain is rich in cysteines and histidines. The pattern of conservation is similar to that found in pfam00130.
HCaRG	HCaRG protein. This family consists of several mammalian HCaRG(hypertension-related, calcium-regulated gene) proteins. HCaRG is negatively regulated by extracellular calcium concentration, and its basal mRNA levels are higher in hypertensive animals. HCaRG is a nuclear protein potentially involved in the control of cell proliferation.
Pro_CA	Carbonic anhydrase. This family includes carbonic anhydrases as well as a family of non-functional homologues related to YbcF.
GSPII_G	Bacterial type II secretion system protein G. The general secretion pathway, or type II pullulanase-like machinery, is responsible for the transport of proteins from the periplasm across the outer membrane in Gram-negative bacteria. This family includes protein G involved in this pathway. The PulG protein is thought to be anchored in the inner membrane with its C-terminus directed towards the periplasm. Together with other members of the secretion machinery, it is thought to assemble into a pilus-like structure that may function as a dynamic mechanism to push secreted proteins out of the cell. The polypeptide is organised into a long N-terminal alpha-helix followed by a loop region that separates it from a C-terminal anti-parallel beta-sheet.
L31	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L31. This is a family of mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. L31 is essential for mitochondrial function in yeast.
Na_H_antiport_1	Na+/H+ antiporter 1. This family contains a number of bacterial Na+/H+ antiporter 1 proteins. These are integral membrane proteins that catalyse the exchange of H+ for Na+ in a manner that is highly dependent on the pH.
Herpes_gI	Alphaherpesvirus glycoprotein I. This family consists of glycoprotein I form various members of the alphaherpesvirinae these include herpesvirus, varicella-zoster virus and pseudorabies virus. Glycoprotein I (gI) is important during natural infection, mutants lacking gI produce smaller lesions at the site of infection and show reduced neuronal spread. gI forms a heterodimeric complex with gE; this complex displays Fc receptor activity (binds to the Fc region of immunoglobulin). Glycoproteins are also important in the production of virus-neutralising antibodies and cell mediated immunity. The alphaherpesvirinae have a dsDNA gnome and have no RNA stage during viral replication.
Ribosomal_L10	Ribosomal protein L10. 
SBP_bac_5	Bacterial extracellular solute-binding proteins, family 5 Middle. The borders of this family are based on the PDBSum definitions of the domain edges for the periplasmic oligopeptide-binding protein from Salmonelle typhimurium.
UPF0183	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0183). This family of proteins includes Lin-10 from Caenorhabditis elegans.
MRP-L27	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L27. Members of this family of proteins are components of the mitochondrial ribosome large subunit. They are also involved in apoptosis and cell cycle regulation.
GLE1	GLE1-like protein. The members of this family are sequences that are similar to the human protein GLE1. This protein is localised at the nuclear pore complexes and functions in poly(A)+ RNA export to the cytoplasm.
Glyco_tran_28_C	Glycosyltransferase family 28 C-terminal domain. The glycosyltransferase family 28 includes monogalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase (EC 2.4.1.46) and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transferase (EC 2.4.1.-). Structural analysis suggests the C-terminal domain contains the UDP-GlcNAc binding site.
DUF591	Protein of unknown function. This family represents a conserved region in a number of uncharacterised plant proteins.
Annexin	Annexin. This family of annexins also includes giardin that has been shown to function as an annexin.
Apocytochr_F_C	Apocytochrome F, C-terminal. This is a sub-family of cytochrome C. See pfam00034.
DUF1509	Protein of unknown function (DUF1509). This family consists of several uncharacterised viral proteins from the Marek's disease-like viruses. Members of this family are typically around 400 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
Rad9	Rad9. Rad9 is required for transient cell-cycle arrests and transcriptional induction of DNA repair in response to DNA damage. It contains a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3).
PsbX	Photosystem II reaction centre X protein (PsbX). This family consists of several photosystem II reaction centre X protein (PsbX) sequences from both prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
RGS	Regulator of G protein signaling domain. RGS family members are GTPase-activating proteins for heterotrimeric G-protein alpha-subunits.
PSRP-3_Ycf65	Plastid and cyanobacterial ribosomal protein (PSRP-3 / Ycf65). This small acidic protein is found in 30S ribosomal subunit of cyanobacteria and plant plastids. In plants it has been named plastid-specific ribosomal protein 3 (PSRP-3), and in cyanobacteria it is named Ycf65. Plastid-specific ribosomal proteins may mediate the effects of nuclear factors on plastid translation. The acidic PSRPs are thought to contribute to protein-protein interactions in the 30S subunit, and are not thought to bind RNA.
PRP3	pre-mRNA processing factor 3 (PRP3). Pre-mRNA processing factor 3 (PRP3) is a U4/U6-associated splicing factor. The human PRP3 has been implicated in autosomal retinitis pigmentosa.
UPF0004	Uncharacterized protein family UPF0004. This family is the N terminal half of the Prosite family. The C-terminal half has been shown to be related to MiaB proteins. This domain is a nearly always found in conjunction with pfam04055 and pfam01938 although its function is uncertain.
Acetate_kinase	Acetokinase family. This family includes acetate kinase, butyrate kinase and 2-methylpropanoate kinase.
Fe_hyd_SSU	Iron hydrogenase small subunit. This family represents the small subunit of the Fe-only hydrogenases EC:1.18.99.1. The subunit is comprised of alternating random coil and alpha helical structures that encompasses the large subunit in a novel protein fold.
PH	PH domain. PH stands for pleckstrin homology.
GntP_permease	GntP family permease. This is a family of integral membrane permeases that are involved in gluconate uptake. Escherichia coli contains several members of this family including GntU, a low affinity transporter and GntT, a high affinity transporter.
KH_1	KH domain. KH motifs can bind RNA in vitro. Autoantibodies to Nova, a KH domain protein, cause paraneoplastic opsoclonus ataxia.
DUF702	Domain of unknown function (DUF702). Members of this family are found in various putative zinc finger proteins.
tRNA-synt_1e	tRNA synthetases class I (C) catalytic domain. This family includes only cysteinyl tRNA synthetases.
OsmC	OsmC-like protein. Osmotically inducible protein C (OsmC) is a stress -induced protein found in Escherichia coli. This family also contains a organic hydroperoxide detoxification protein that has a novel pattern of oxidative stress regulation.
PLD_envelope	Phospholipase D/viral envelope. This domain is found in phospholipases and viral envelope proteins between Phospholipase D (PLD) active site motifs (pfam00641). PLD is associated with Golgi membranes and alters their lipid content by the conversion of phospholipids into phosphatidic acid, which is thought to be involved in the regulation of lipid movement. This might explain the prevalence of this domain in viral envelope proteins.
Porin_3	Eukaryotic porin. 
Na_sulph_symp	Sodium:sulfate symporter transmembrane region. There are also some members in this family that do not match the Prosite motif, and belong to the subfamily SODIT1.
Cyclase	Putative cyclase. Proteins in this family are thought to be cyclase enzymes. They are found in proteins involved in antibiotic synthesis. However they are also found in organisms that do not make antibiotics pointing to a wider role for these proteins. The proteins contain a conserved motif HXGTHXDXPXH that is likely to form part of the active site.
Nnf1	Nnf1. NNF1 is an essential yeast gene that is necessary for chromosome segregation. It is associated with the spindle poles and forms part of a kinetochore subcomplex called MIND.
NABP	Nucleic acid binding protein NABP. Many members of this family are putative nucleic acid binding proteins. One member of this family has been partially characterised and contains two putative phosphorylation sites and a possible dimerisation / leucine zipper domain.
eRF1_2	eRF1 domain 2. The release factor eRF1 terminates protein biosynthesis by recognising stop codons at the A site of the ribosome and stimulating peptidyl-tRNA bond hydrolysis at the peptidyl transferase centre. The crystal structure of human eRF1 is known. The overall shape and dimensions of eRF1 resemble a tRNA molecule with domains 1, 2, and 3 of eRF1 corresponding to the anticodon loop, aminoacyl acceptor stem, and T stem of a tRNA molecule, respectively. The position of the essential GGQ motif at an exposed tip of domain 2 suggests that the Gln residue coordinates a water molecule to mediate the hydrolytic activity at the peptidyl transferase centre. A conserved groove on domain 1, 80 A from the GGQ motif, is proposed to form the codon recognition site. This family also includes other proteins for which the precise molecular function is unknown. Many of them are from Archaebacteria. These proteins may also be involved in translation termination but this awaits experimental verification.
DUF914	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF914). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins of unknown function. Some of the sequences in this family are annotated as being putative membrane proteins.
Mtr2	Nuclear pore RNA shuttling protein Mtr2. Mtr2 is a monomeric, dual-action, RNA-shuttle protein found in yeasts. Transport across the nuclear-cytoplasmic membrane is via the macro-molecular membrane-spanning nuclear pore complex, NPC. The pore is lined by a subset of NPC members called nucleoporins that present FG (Phe-Gly) receptors, characteristically GLFG and FXFG motifs, for shuttling RNAs and proteins. RNA cargo is bound to soluble transport proteins (nuclear export factors) such as Mex67 in yeasts, and TAP in metazoa, which pass along the pore by binding to successive FG receptors. Mtr2 when bound to Mex67 maximises this FG-binding. Mtr2 also acts independently of Mex67 in transporting the large ribosomal RNA subunit through the pore.
DUF1173	Protein of unknown function (DUF1173). This family contains a group of hypothetical bacterial proteins that contain three conserved cysteine residues towards the N-terminal. The function of these proteins is unknown.
Hat1_N	Histone acetyl transferase HAT1 N-terminus. This domain is the N-terminal half of the structure of histone acetyl transferase HAT1. It is often found in association with the C-terminal part of the GNAT Acetyltransf_1 (pfam00583) domain. It seems to be motifs C and D of the structure. Histone acetyltransferases (HATs) catalyse the transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl-CoA to the lysine E-amino groups on the N-terminal tails of histones. HATs are involved in transcription since histones tend to be hyper-acetylated in actively transcribed regions of chromatin, whereas in transcriptionally silent regions histones are hypo-acetylated.
DUF1719	Domain of unknown function (DUF1719). This is a domain of unknown function. It may have a role in ATPase activation.
HAMP	HAMP domain. 
FHIPEP	FHIPEP family. 
Ribosomal_L6e	Ribosomal protein L6e. 
Eapp_C	E2F-associated phosphoprotein. This entry represents the conserved C-terminal portion of an E2F binding protein. E2F transcription factors play an essential role in cell proliferation and apoptosis and their activity is frequently deregulated in human cancers. E2F activity is regulated by a variety of mechanisms, frequently mediated by proteins binding to individual members or a subgroup of the family. EAPP interacts with a subset of E2F factors and influences E2F-dependent promoter activity. EAPP is present throughout the cell cycle but disappears during mitosis.
UPF0086	Domain of unknown function UPF0086. This family consists of several archaeal and eukaryotic proteins. The archaeal proteins are found to be expressed within ribosomal operons and several of the sequences are described as ribonuclease P protein subunit p29 proteins.
Phage_F	Capsid protein (F protein). This is a family of proteins from single-stranded DNA bacteriophages. Protein F is the major capsid component, sixty copies of which are found in the virion.
Ribul_P_3_epim	Ribulose-phosphate 3 epimerase family. This enzyme catalyses the conversion of D-ribulose 5-phosphate into D-xylulose 5-phosphate.
CHCH	CHCH domain. we have identified a conserved motif in the LOC118487 protein that we have called the CHCH motif. Alignment of this protein with related members showed the presence of three subgroups of proteins, which are called the S (Small), N (N-terminal extended) and C (C-terminal extended) subgroups. All three sub-groups of proteins have in common that they contain a predicted conserved [coiled coil 1]-[helix 1]-[coiled coil 2]-[helix 2] domain (CHCH domain). Within each helix of the CHCH domain, there are two cysteines present in a C-X9-C motif. The N-group contains an additional double helix domain, and each helix contains the C-X9-C motif. This family contains a number of characterised proteins: Cox19 protein - a nuclear gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, codes for an 11-kDa protein (Cox19p) required for expression of cytochrome oxidase. Because cox19 mutants are able to synthesise the mitochondrial and nuclear gene products of cytochrome oxidase, Cox19p probably functions post-translationally during assembly of the enzyme. Cox19p is present in the cytoplasm and mitochondria, where it exists as a soluble intermembrane protein. This dual location is similar to what was previously reported for Cox17p, a low molecular weight copper protein thought to be required for maturation of the CuA centre of subunit 2 of cytochrome oxidase. Cox19p have four conserved potential metal ligands, these are three cysteines and one histidine. Mrp10 - belongs to the class of yeast mitochondrial ribosomal proteins that are essential for translation. Eukaryotic NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase 19 kDa (NDUFA8) subunit. The CHCH domain was previously called DUF657.
TPX2	Targeting protein for Xklp2 (TPX2). This family represents a conserved region approximately 60 residues long within the eukaryotic targeting protein for Xklp2 (TPX2). Xklp2 is a kinesin-like protein localised on centrosomes throughout the cell cycle and on spindle pole microtubules during metaphase. In Xenopus, it has been shown that Xklp2 protein is required for centrosome separation and maintenance of spindle bi-polarity. TPX2 is a microtubule-associated protein that mediates the binding of the C-terminal domain of Xklp2 to microtubules. It is phosphorylated during mitosis in a microtubule-dependent way.
SPARC_Ca_bdg	Secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine Ca binding region. The SPARC_Ca_bdg domain of Secreted Protein Acidic and Rich in Cysteine is responsible for the anti-spreading activity of human urothelial cells. It is rich in alpha-helices. This extracellular calcium-binding domain contains two EF-hands that each coordinates one Ca2+ ion, forming a helix-loop-helix structure that not only drives the conformation of the protein but is also necessary for biological activity. The anti-spreading activity was dependent on the coordination of Ca2+ by a Glu residue at the Z position of EF-hand 2.
CRAL_TRIO_N	CRAL/TRIO, N-terminus. This all-alpha domain is found to the N-terminus of pfam00650.
Spt4	Transcription elongation protein Spt4. This family consists of several eukaryotic transcription elongation Spt4 proteins. Three transcription-elongation factors Spt4, Spt5, and Spt6 are conserved among eukaryotes and are essential for transcription via the modulation of chromatin structure. Spt4 and Spt5 are tightly associated in a complex, while the physical association of the Spt4-Spt5 complex with Spt6 is considerably weaker. It has been demonstrated that Spt4, Spt5, and Spt6 play roles in transcription elongation in both yeast and humans including a role in activation by Tat. It is known that Spt4, Spt5, and Spt6 are general transcription-elongation factors, controlling transcription both positively and negatively in important regulatory and developmental roles.
Ret_tiss	Retinal tissue protein. Rtp is a family of proteins of approximately 112 amino acids in length which is conserved from nematodes to humans. The proposed tertiary structure is of almost entirely alpha helix interrupted only by loops located at proline residues. Three sites in the protein sequence reveal two types of possible post-translation modification. A serine residue, at position 41, is a candidate for protein kinase C phosphorylation. Glycine residues at position 69 and 91 are probable sites for acetylation by covalent amide linkage of myristate via N-myristoyl transferase. Rtp is differentially expressed in the trout retina between parr and smolt developmental stages (smoltification). It is likely to be a house-keeping protein.
CobS	Cobalamin-5-phosphate synthase. This is family of Colbalmin-5-phosphate synthases, CobS, from bacteria. The CobS enzyme catalyses the synthesis of AdoCbl-5'-p from AdoCbi-GDP and alpha-ribazole-5'-P. This enzyme is involved in the cobalamin (vitamin B12) biosynthesis pathway in particular the nucleotide loop assembly stage in conjunction with CobC, CobU and CobT.
NIR_SIR_ferr	Nitrite/Sulfite reductase ferredoxin-like half domain. Sulfite and Nitrite reductases are key to both biosynthetic assimilation of sulfur and nitrogen and dissimilation of oxidised anions for energy transduction. Two copies of this repeat are found in Nitrite and Sulfite reductases and form a single structural domain.
Ribosomal_L7Ae	Ribosomal protein L7Ae/L30e/S12e/Gadd45 family. This family includes: Ribosomal L7A from metazoa, Ribosomal L8-A and L8-B from fungi, 30S ribosomal protein HS6 from archaebacteria, 40S ribosomal protein S12 from eukaryotes, Ribosomal protein L30 from eukaryotes and archaebacteria. Gadd45 and MyD118.
Rep_fac-A_C	Replication factor-A C terminal domain. This domain is found at the C terminal of replication factor A. Replication factor A (RPA) binds single-stranded DNA and is involved in replication, repair, and recombination of DNA.
GARS_C	Phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase, C domain. Phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase catalyses the second step in the de novo biosynthesis of purine. The reaction catalysed by Phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase is the ATP- dependent addition of 5-phosphoribosylamine to glycine to form 5'phosphoribosylglycinamide. This domain is related to the C-terminal domain of biotin carboxylase/carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (see pfam02787).
COPI_C	Coatomer (COPI) alpha subunit C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 500 residues) of the eukaryotic coatomer alpha subunit. Coatomer (COPI) is a large cytosolic protein complex which forms a coat around vesicles budding from the Golgi apparatus. Such coatomer-coated vesicles have been proposed to play a role in many distinct steps of intracellular transport. Note that many family members also contain the pfam04053 domain.
DUF389	Domain of unknown function (DUF389). Family of hypothetical bacterial proteins with an undetermined function.
Resolvase	Resolvase, N terminal domain. The N-terminal domain of the resolvase family (this family) contains the active site and the dimer interface. The extended arm at the C-terminus of this domain connects to the C-terminal helix-turn-helix domain of resolvase - see pfam02796.
Deme6	Breast cancer protein. This is a family of proteins conserved from fungi to humans, which, in humans is expressed in primary breast carcinomas but not in normal breast tissue. There appears to be a putative eukaryotic RNP-1 motif and a candidate anchoring transmembrane domain. Deme6 is coordinately regulated with oestrogen receptor, but is not necessarily oestradiol-responsive. Members of this family also carry a TPR_2 domain pfam07719 at their C-terminus.
LON	ATP-dependent protease La (LON) domain. 
POP1	Ribonucleases P/MRP protein subunit POP1. This family represents a conserved region approximately 150 residues long located towards the N-terminus of the POP1 subunit that is common to both the RNase MRP and RNase P ribonucleoproteins (EC:3.1.26.5). These RNA-containing enzymes generate mature tRNA molecules by cleaving their 5' ends.
Vps5	Vps5 C terminal like. Vps5 is a sorting nexin that functions in membrane trafficking. This is the C terminal dimerisation domain.
Mlf1IP	Myelodysplasia-myeloid leukemia factor 1-interacting protein. This entry is the conserved central region of a group of proteins that are putative transcriptional repressors. The structure contains a putative 14-3-3 binding motif involved in the subcellular localisation of various regulatory molecules, and it may be that interaction with the transcription factor DREF could be regulated through this motif. DREF regulates proliferation-related genes in Drosophila. Mlf1IP is expressed in both the nuclei and the cytoplasm and thus may have multi-functions.
MOSC_N	MOSC N-terminal beta barrel domain. This domain is found to the N-terminus of pfam03473. The function of this domain is unknown, however it is predicted to adopt a beta barrel fold.
TrbI	Bacterial conjugation TrbI-like protein. Although not essential for conjugation, the TrbI protein greatly increase the conjugational efficiency.
FdhD-NarQ	FdhD/NarQ family. Nitrate assimilation protein, NarQ, and FdhD are required for formate dehydrogenase activity.
FSH1	Serine hydrolase (FSH1). This is a family of serine hydrolases.
ETX_MTX2	Clostridium epsilon toxin ETX/Bacillus mosquitocidal toxin MTX2. This family appears to be distantly related to pfam01117.
MULE	MULE transposase domain. This domain was identified by Babu and colleagues.
7TM_GPCR_Srd	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srd. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srd is part of the larger Str superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
Radial_spoke	Radial spokehead-like protein. This family includes the radial spoke head proteins RSP4 and RSP6 from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and several eukaryotic homologues, including mammalian RSHL1, the protein product of a familial ciliary dyskinesia candidate gene.
Competence	Competence protein. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins with 6 predicted transmembrane helices. Some members of this family have been shown to be essential for bacterial competence in uptake of extracellular DNA. These proteins may transport DNA across the cell membrane. These proteins contain a highly conserved motif in the amino terminal transmembrane region that has two histidines that may form a metal binding site.
DcuA_DcuB	Anaerobic c4-dicarboxylate membrane transporter. 
PAZ	PAZ domain. This domain is named PAZ after the proteins Piwi Argonaut and Zwille. This domain is found in two families of proteins that are involved in post-transcriptional gene silencing. These are the Piwi family and the Dicer family, that includes the Carpel factory protein. The function of the domains is unknown but has been suggested to mediate complex formation between proteins of the Piwi and Dicer families by hetero-dimerisation. The three-dimensional structure of this domain has been solved. The PAZ domain is composed of two subdomains. One subdomain is similar to the OB fold, albeit with a different topology. The OB-fold is well known as a single-stranded nucleic acid binding fold. The second subdomain is composed of a beta-hairpin followed by an alpha-helix. The PAZ domains shows low-affinity nucleic acid binding and appears to interact with the 3' ends of single-stranded regions of RNA in the cleft between the two subdomains. PAZ can bind the characteristic two-base 3' overhangs of siRNAs, indicating that although PAZ may not be a primary nucleic acid binding site in Dicer or RISC, it may contribute to the specific and productive incorporation of siRNAs and miRNAs into the RNAi pathway.
UDG	Uracil DNA glycosylase superfamily. 
Sod_Fe_N	Iron/manganese superoxide dismutases, alpha-hairpin domain. superoxide dismutases (SODs) catalyse the conversion of superoxide radicals to hydrogen peroxide and molecular oxygen. Three evolutionarily distinct families of SODs are known, of which the Mn/Fe-binding family is one. In humans, there is a cytoplasmic Cu/Zn SOD, and a mitochondrial Mn/Fe SOD. N-terminal domain is a long alpha antiparallel hairpin. A small fragment of YTRE_LEPBI matches well - sequencing error?
PEPCK_ATP	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase. 
HMG_CoA_synt_C	Hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A synthase C terminal. 
SURF2	Surfeit locus protein 2 (SURF2). Surfeit locus protein 2 is part of a group of at least six sequence unrelated genes (Surf-1 to Surf-6). The six Surfeit genes have been classified as housekeeping genes, being expressed in all tissue types tested and not containing a TATA box in their promoter region. The exact function of SURF2 is unknown.
Guanylate_cyc_2	Guanylyl cyclase. Members of this family of proteins catalyse the conversion of guanosine triphosphate (GTP) to 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) and pyrophosphate.
Spc7	Spc7 kinetochore protein. This domain is found in cell division proteins which are required for kinetochore-spindle association.
DUF1409	Protein of unknown function (DUF1409). This family represents a short conserved region (approximately 50 residues long), sometimes repeated, within a number of hypothetical Oryza sativa proteins of unknown function.
SNO	SNO glutamine amidotransferase family. It is predicted that members of this family are involved in the pyridoxine biosynthetic pathway, based on the proximity and co-regulation of the corresponding genes and physical interaction between the members of pfam01174 and pfam01680.
LppC	LppC putative lipoprotein. This family includes several bacterial outer membrane antigens, whose molecular function is unknown.
Nse4	Nse4. Nse4 is a component of the Smc5/6 DNA repair complex. It forms interactions with Smc5 and Nse1.
Peptidase_M28	Peptidase family M28. 
AAA_3	ATPase family associated with various cellular activities (AAA). This Pfam entry includes some of the AAA proteins not detected by the pfam00004 model.
Ribosomal_L29e	Ribosomal L29e protein family. 
SSDP	Single-stranded DNA binding protein, SSDP. This is a family of eukaryotic single-stranded DNA binding proteins with specificity to a pyrimidine-rich element found in the promoter region of the alpha2(I) collagen gene.
NUDE_C	NUDE protein, C-terminal conserved region. This family represents the C-terminal conserved region of the NUDE proteins. NUDE proteins are involved in nuclear migration.
DUF2168	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2168). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function. It is also found in a few prokaryotic tRNA (guanine-N(1)-)-methyltransferases.
SRP_SPB	Signal peptide binding domain. 
Ribosomal_S15	Ribosomal protein S15. 
Tmemb_55A	Transmembrane protein 55A. Members of this family catalyse the hydrolysis of the 4-position phosphate of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, in the reaction: 1-phosphatidyl-myo-inositol 4,5-bisphosphate + H(2)O = 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 5-phosphate + phosphate.
EMP70	Endomembrane protein 70. 
START	START domain. 
MGAT2	N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase II (MGAT2). UDP-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine:alpha-6-D-mannoside beta-1,2-N- acetylglucosaminyltransferase II (EC 2.4.1.143) (GnT II/MGAT2) is a Golgi resident enzyme that catalyses an essential step in the biosynthetic pathway leading from high mannose to complex N-linked oligosaccharides. Mutations in the MGAT2 gene lead to congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG IIa). CDG IIa patients have an increased bleeding tendency, unrelated to coagulation factors.
DUF2008	Protein of unknown function (DUF2008). This is a family of eukaryotic proteins whose function has not been characterised.
DUF1186	Protein of unknown function (DUF1186). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 250 residues in length and is found in several Chlamydia and Anabaena species. The function of this family is unknown.
HTH_3	Helix-turn-helix. This large family of DNA binding helix-turn helix proteins includes Cro and CI.
DUF1644	Protein of unknown function (DUF1644). This family consists of sequences found in a number of hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function. The region of interest contains nine highly conserved cysteine residues and is approximately 160 amino acids in length, and is probably a zinc-binding domain.
Frizzled	Frizzled/Smoothened family membrane region. This family contains the membrane spanning region of frizzled and smoothened receptors. This membrane region is predicted to contain seven transmembrane alpha helices. Proteins related to Drosophila frizzled are receptors for Wnt (mediating the beta-catenin signalling pathway), but also the planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway and the Wnt/calcium pathway. The predominantly alpha-helical Cys-rich ligand-binding region (CRD) of Frizzled is both necessary and sufficient for Wnt binding. The smoothened receptor mediates hedgehog signalling.
GCS2	Glutamate-cysteine ligase family 2(GCS2). Also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and gamma-ECS (EC:6.3.2.2). This enzyme catalyses the first and rate limiting step in de novo glutathione biosynthesis. Members of this family are found in archaea, bacteria and plants. May and Leaver discuss the possible evolutionary origins of glutamate-cysteine ligase enzymes in different organisms and suggest that it evolved independently in different eukaryotes, from an ancestral bacterial enzyme. They also state that Arabidopsis thaliana gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase is structurally unrelated to mammalian, yeast and Escherichia coli homologues. In plants, there are separate cytosolic and chloroplast forms of the enzyme.
SCFA_trans	Short chain fatty acid transporter. This family consists of two sequences annotated as short chain fatty acid transporters, however, there are no references giving details of experimental characterisation of this function.
Alpha_L_fucos	Alpha-L-fucosidase. 
Med19	Mediator of RNA pol II transcription subunit 19. Med19 represents a family of conserved proteins which are members of the multi-protein co-activator Mediator complex. Mediator is required for activation of RNA polymerase II transcription by DNA binding transactivators.
A2L_zn_ribbon	A2L zinc ribbon domain. This zinc ribbon domain is found associated with some viral A2L transcription factors.
Amidase_2	N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidase. This family includes zinc amidases that have N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidase activity EC:3.5.1.28. This enzyme domain cleaves the amide bond between N-acetylmuramoyl and L-amino acids in bacterial cell walls (preferentially: D-lactyl-L-Ala). The structure is known for the bacteriophage T7 structure and shows that two of the conserved histidines are zinc binding.
TP6A_N	Type IIB DNA topoisomerase. Type II DNA topoisomerases are ubiquitous enzymes that catalyse the ATP-dependent transport of one DNA duplex through a second DNA segment via a transient double-strand break. Type II DNA topoisomerases are now subdivided into two sub-families, type IIA and IIB DNA topoisomerases. TP6A_N is present in type IIB topoisomerase and is thought to be involved in DNA binding owing to its sequence similarity to Escherichia coli catabolite activator protein (CAP).
Peptidase_M76	Peptidase M76 family. This is a family of metalloproteases. Proteins in this family are also annotated as Ku70-binding proteins.
DNA_pol_phi	DNA polymerase phi. This family includes the fifth essential DNA polymerase in yeast EC:2.7.7.7. Pol5p is localised exclusively to the nucleolus and binds near or at the enhancer region of rRNA-encoding DNA repeating units.
Di19	Drought induced 19 protein (Di19). This family consists of several drought induced 19 (Di19) like proteins. Di19 has been found to be strongly expressed in both the roots and leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana during progressive drought. The precise function of Di19 is unknown.
IlvN	Acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase, catalytic domain. Acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase catalyses the conversion of acetohydroxy acids into dihydroxy valerates. This reaction is the second in the synthetic pathway of the essential branched side chain amino acids valine and isoleucine.
Prenyltrans	Prenyltransferase and squalene oxidase repeat. 
Xpo1	Exportin 1-like protein. The sequences featured in this family are similar to a region close to the N-terminus of yeast exportin 1 (Xpo1, Crm1). This region is found just C-terminal to an importin-beta N-terminal domain (pfam03810) in many members of this family. Exportin 1 is a nuclear export receptor that interacts with leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES) sequences, and Ran-GTP, and is involved in translocation of proteins out of the nucleus.
Pili_assembly_N	Gram-negative pili assembly chaperone, N-terminal domain. C2 domain-like beta-sandwich fold.
R3H	R3H domain. The name of the R3H domain comes from the characteristic spacing of the most conserved arginine and histidine residues. The function of the domain is predicted to be binding ssDNA.
Luteo_Vpg	Luteovirus putative VPg genome linked protein. This family consists of several putative genome linked proteins. The genomic RNA of luteoviruses are linked to virally encoded genome proteins (VPg). Open reading frame 4 is thought to encode the VPg in Soybean dwarf luteovirus. Luteoviruses have isometric capsids that contain a positive stand ssRNA genome, they have no DNA stage during their replication.
DUF858	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF858). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
CagX	Conjugal transfer protein. This family includes type IV secretion system CagX conjugation protein. Other members of this family are involved in conjugal transfer to plant cells of T-DNA.
DUF740	Protein of unknown function (DUF740). This family consists of several uncharacterised plant proteins of unknown function.
CAT	Chloramphenicol acetyltransferase. 
Wound_ind	Wound-inducible basic protein family. This family consists of the wound-inducible basic proteins from plants. The metabolic activities of plants are dramatically altered upon mechanical injury or pathogen attack. A large number of proteins accumulates at wound or infection sites, such as the wound-inducible basic proteins. These proteins are small, 47 amino acids in length, has no signal peptides and are hydrophilic and basic.
FKBP12	Ca-release from SR modulating protein glomulin or FKBP-12. In the human adult, FKBP-12, also known as FAP68 or FK506-binding protein, (protein product of the gene glomulin) is expressed at high levels in skeletal muscle, heart, brain and kidney, and at low levels in smaller arteries and veins. The high expression of glomulin in murine vasculature suggests an important role in blood vessel development and/or maintenance, which is supported by the vascular phenotype seen in GVM patients with mutations in this gene. It is a cytoplasmic protein, specifically bound by the non-phosphorylated form of the hepatocyte growth factor, HGF, receptor and is released upon HGF stimulation and receptor phosphorylation, suggesting a potential role for FKBP12 in linking HGF signaling to the regulation of protein synthesis. FKBP12 is found to regulate Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) by its action on the IP3 receptors (IP3Rs), which crucially regulate diverse cell signalling processes from reproduction to apoptosis, possibly via the kinase rapamycin (mTOR), that potentiates Ca2+ release from the IP3R in smooth muscle.
TFR_dimer	Transferrin receptor-like dimerisation domain. This domain is involved in dimerisation of the transferrin receptor as shown in its crystal structure.
Prp18	Prp18 domain. The splicing factor Prp18 is required for the second step of pre-mRNA splicing. The structure of a large fragment of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Prp18 is known. This fragment is fully active in yeast splicing in vitro and includes the sequences of Prp18 that have been evolutionarily conserved. The core structure consists of five alpha-helices that adopt a novel fold. The most highly conserved region of Prp18, a nearly invariant stretch of 19 aa, forms part of a loop between two alpha-helices and may interact with the U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles.
DER1	Der1-like family. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains of proteolytic system able to selectively degrade misfolded lumenal secretory proteins. For examination of the components involved in this degradation process, mutants were isolated. They could be divided into four complementation groups. The mutations led to stabilisation of two different substrates for this process. The mutant classes were called 'der' for 'degradation in the ER'. DER1 was cloned by complementation of the der1-2 mutation. The DER1 gene codes for a novel, hydrophobic protein, that is localised to the ER. Deletion of DER1 abolished degradation of the substrate proteins. The function of the Der1 protein seems to be specifically required for the degradation process associated with the ER. Interestingly this family seems distantly related to the Rhomboid family of membrane peptidases. Suggesting that this family may also mediate degradation of misfolded proteins (Bateman A pers. obs.).
DUF304	Bacterial membrane flanked domain. Domain found in uncharacterised family of membrane proteins. 1-3 copies found in each protein, with each copy flanked by transmembrane helices.
AIP3	Actin interacting protein 3. 
Chal_sti_synt_C	Chalcone and stilbene synthases, C-terminal domain. This domain of chalcone synthase is reported to be structurally similar to domains in thiolase and beta-ketoacyl synthase. The differences in activity are accounted for by differences in the N-terminal domain.
DUF1683	Protein of unknown function (DUF1683). The proteins featured in this family are all hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. The region in question is approximately 150 residues long.
DUF1332	Protein of unknown function (DUF1332). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins and putative heat shock proteins of around 165 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
KAR9	Yeast cortical protein KAR9. The KAR9 protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a cytoskeletal protein required for karyogamy, correct positioning of the mitotic spindle and for orientation of cytoplasmic microtubules. KAR9 localises at the shmoo tip in mating cells and at the tip of the growing bud in anaphase.
HEM4	Uroporphyrinogen-III synthase HemD. This family consists of uroporphyrinogen-III synthase HemD EC:4.2.1.75 also known as Hydroxymethylbilane hydrolyase (cyclizing) from eukaryotes, bacteria and archaea. This enzyme catalyses the reaction: Hydroxymethylbilane <=> uroporphyrinogen-III + H(2)O. Some members of this family are multi-functional proteins possessing other enzyme activities related to porphyrin biosynthesis, with pfam00590, however the aligned region corresponds with the uroporphyrinogen-III synthase EC:4.2.1.75 activity only. Uroporphyrinogen-III synthase is the fourth enzyme in the heme pathway. Mutant forms of the Uroporphyrinogen-III synthase gene cause congenital erythropoietic porphyria in humans a recessive inborn error of metabolism also known as Gunther disease.
DcuC	C4-dicarboxylate anaerobic carrier. 
DUF926	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF926). Family of eukaryotic proteins with undetermined function.
Triadin	Triadin. This family consists of several eukaryotic triadin proteins. Triadin is a ryanodine receptor and calsequestrin binding protein located in junctional sarcoplasmic reticulum of striated muscles.
RNase_HII	Ribonuclease HII. 
AceK	Isocitrate dehydrogenase kinase/phosphatase (AceK). This family consists of several bacterial isocitrate dehydrogenase kinase/phosphatase (AceK) proteins (EC:2.7.1.116).
UDPG_MGDP_dh_N	UDP-glucose/GDP-mannose dehydrogenase family, NAD binding domain. The UDP-glucose/GDP-mannose dehydrogenaseses are a small group of enzymes which possesses the ability to catalyse the NAD-dependent 2-fold oxidation of an alcohol to an acid without the release of an aldehyde intermediate.
FAR1	FAR1 DNA-binding domain. This domain contains a WRKY like fold and is therefore most likely a zinc binding DNA-binding domain.
TFIIE_alpha	TFIIE alpha subunit. The general transcription factor TFIIE has an essential role in eukaryotic transcription initiation together with RNA polymerase II and other general factors. Human TFIIE consists of two subunits TFIIE-alpha and TFIIE-beta and joins the preinitiation complex after RNA polymerase II and TFIIF. This family consists of the conserved amino terminal region of eukaryotic TFIIE-alpha and proteins from archaebacteria that are presumed to be TFIIE-alpha subunits too.
FKBP_C	FKBP-type peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase. 
Peptidase_M24	metallopeptidase family M24. 
DUF327	Protein of unknown function (DUF327). The proteins in this family are around 140-170 residues in length. The proteins contain many conserved residues. with the most conserved motifs found in the central and C-terminal region. The function of these proteins is unknown.
Cobalamin_bind	Eukaryotic cobalamin-binding protein. 
DUF876	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF876). This family consists of a series of hypothetical bacterial sequences of unknown function.
PRT_C	Plant phosphoribosyltransferase C-terminal. This domain is found at the C-terminus of phosphoribosyltransferases and phosphoribosyltransferase-like proteins. It contains putative transmembrane regions. It often appears together with calcium-ion dependent C2 domains (pfam00168).
zf-NADH-PPase	NADH pyrophosphatase zinc ribbon domain. This domain is found in between two duplicated NUDIX domains. It has a zinc ribbon structure.
G-patch	G-patch domain. This domain is found in a number of RNA binding proteins, and is also found in proteins that contain RNA binding domains. This suggests that this domain may have an RNA binding function. This domain has seven highly conserved glycines.
MerT	MerT mercuric transport protein. MerT is an mercuric transport integral membrane protein and is responsible for transport of the Hg2+ iron from periplasmic MerP (also part of the transport system) to mercuric reductase (MerE).
DUF297	TM1410 hypothetical-related protein. 
DUF897	Domain of unknown function (DUF897). Family of bacterial proteins with unknown function
MgtC	MgtC family. The MgtC protein is found in an operon with the Mg2+ transporter protein MgtB. The function of MgtC and its homologues is not known.
MR_MLE	Mandelate racemase / muconate lactonizing enzyme, C-terminal domain. C-terminal domain is TIM barrel fold, dehydratase-like domain. Manganese is associated with this domain.
XendoU	Endoribonuclease XendoU. This is a family of endoribonucleases involved in RNA biosynthesis which has been named XendoU in Xenopus laevis. XendoU is a U-specific metal dependent enzyme that produces products with a 2'-3' cyclic phosphate termini.
DUF755	Domain of unknown function (DUF755). This family is predominated by ORFs from Circoviridae. The function of this family remains to be determined.
GN3L_Grn1	GNL3L/Grn1 putative GTPase. Grn1 (yeast) and GNL3L (human) are putative GTPases which are required for growth and play a role in processing of nucleolar pre-rRNA. This family contains a potential nuclear localisation signal.
EIN3	Ethylene insensitive 3. Ethylene insensitive 3 (EIN3) proteins are a family of plant DNA-binding proteins that regulate transcription in response to the gaseous plant hormone ethylene, and are essential for ethylene-mediated responses including the triple response, cell growth inhibition, and accelerated senescence.
Pantoate_transf	Ketopantoate hydroxymethyltransferase. Ketopantoate hydroxymethyltransferase (EC:2.1.2.11) is the first enzyme in the pantothenate biosynthesis pathway.
DUF816	Baculovirus protein of unknown function (DUF816). This family includes proteins that are about 200 amino acids in length. The proteins are all from baculoviruses. This family includes ORF107 from Orgyia pseudotsugata multicapsid polyhedrosis virus (OpMNPV) and a variety of other numbered ORF proteins, such as ORF52, ORF140. The function of these proteins is unknown.
DUF803	Protein of unknown function (DUF803). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
MGC-24	Multi-glycosylated core protein 24 (MGC-24). This family consists of several MGC-24 (or Cd164 antigen) proteins from eukaryotic organisms. MGC-24/CD164 is a sialomucin expressed in many normal and cancerous tissues. In humans, soluble and transmembrane forms of MGC-24 are produced by alternative splicing.
Peptidase_S8	Subtilase family. Subtilases are a family of serine proteases. They appear to have independently and convergently evolved an Asp/Ser/His catalytic triad, like that found in the trypsin serine proteases (see pfam00089). Structure is an alpha/beta fold containing a 7-stranded parallel beta sheet, order 2314567.
Ribosomal_L3	Ribosomal protein L3. 
IMPDH	IMP dehydrogenase / GMP reductase domain. This family is involved in biosynthesis of guanosine nucleotide. Members of this family contain a TIM barrel structure. In the inosine monophosphate dehydrogenases 2 CBS domains pfam00571 are inserted in the TIM barrel. This family is a member of the common phosphate binding site TIM barrel family.
zf-CCHC	Zinc knuckle. The zinc knuckle is a zinc binding motif composed of the the following CX2CX4HX4C where X can be any amino acid. The motifs are mostly from retroviral gag proteins (nucleocapsid). Prototype structure is from HIV. Also contains members involved in eukaryotic gene regulation, such as Caenorhabditis elegans GLH-1. Structure is an 18-residue zinc finger.
DUF1670	Protein of unknown function (DUF1670). The hypothetical eukaryotic proteins found in this family are of unknown function.
RE_MamI	MamI restriction endonuclease. This family includes the MamI (recognises and cleaves GATNN^NNATC) restriction endonuclease.
Dor1	Dor1-like family. Dor1 is involved in vesicle targeting to the yeast Golgi apparatus and complexes with a number of other trafficking proteins, which include Sec34 and Sec35.
SGL	SMP-30/Gluconolaconase/LRE-like region. This family describes a region that is found in proteins expressed by a variety of eukaryotic and prokaryotic species. These proteins include various enzymes, such as senescence marker protein 30 (SMP-30), gluconolactonase and luciferin-regenerating enzyme (LRE). SMP-30 is known to hydrolyse diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate in the liver, and has been noted as having sequence similarity, in the region described in this family, with PON1 and LRE.
RNA_pol_Rpb5_N	RNA polymerase Rpb5, N-terminal domain. Rpb5 has a bipartite structure which includes a eukaryote-specific N-terminal domain and a C-terminal domain resembling the archaeal RNAP subunit H. The N-terminal domain is involved in DNA binding and is part of the jaw module in the RNA pol II structure. This module is important for positioning the downstream DNA.
DUF2130	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2130). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
SCP2	SCP-2 sterol transfer family. This domain is involved in binding sterols. It is found in the SCP2 protein, as well as the C terminus of the enzyme estradiol 17 beta-dehydrogenase EC:1.1.1.62. The UNC-24 protein contains an SPFH domain pfam01145.
Chitin_bind_3	Chitin binding domain. This domain is found associated with a wide variety of cellulose binding domain. This domain however is a chitin binding domain. This domain is found in isolation in baculoviral spheroidins and spindolins, protein of unknown function.
Nif11	Nitrogen fixation protein of unknown function. This domain is found in the Cyanobacteria, and may be involved in nitrogen fixation, but no role has been assigned.
Fibrinogen_BP	Fibrinogen binding protein. Proteins in this family bind to fibrinogen. Members of this family includes the fibrinogen receptor, FbsA, which mediates platelet aggregation.
GDC-P	Glycine cleavage system P-protein. This family consists of Glycine cleavage system P-proteins EC:1.4.4.2 from bacterial, mammalian and plant sources. The P protein is part of the glycine decarboxylase multienzyme complex EC:2.1.2.10 (GDC) also annotated as glycine cleavage system or glycine synthase. GDC consists of four proteins P, H, L and T. The reaction catalysed by this protein is:- Glycine + lipoylprotein <=> S-aminomethyldihydrolipoylprotein + CO2
DUF1338	Protein of unknown function (DUF1338). This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 100 residues) of a number of hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
Peptidase_C14	Caspase domain. 
Lipase_GDSL	GDSL-like Lipase/Acylhydrolase. 
Peptidase_M30	Peptidase M30. This family contains the metallopeptidase hyicolysin. Hyicolysin has a zinc ion which is liganded by two histidine and one glutamate residue.
Furin-like	Furin-like cysteine rich region. 
Dynein_light	Dynein light chain type 1. 
Cupin_4	Cupin superfamily protein. This family contains many hypothetical proteins that belong to the cupin superfamily.
TENA_THI-4	TENA/THI-4/PQQC family. Members of this family are found in all the three major phyla of life: archaebacteria, eubacteria, and eukaryotes. In Bacillus subtilis, TENA is one of a number of proteins that enhance the expression of extracellular enzymes, such as alkaline protease, neutral protease and levansucrase. The THI-4 protein, which is involved in thiamine biosynthesis, is also a member of this family. The C-terminal part of these proteins consistently show significant sequence similarity to TENA proteins. This similarity was first noted with the Neurospora crassa THI-4. This family includes bacterial coenzyme PQQ synthesis protein C or PQQC proteins. Pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) is the prosthetic group of several bacterial enzymes,including methanol dehydrogenase of methylotrophs and the glucose dehydrogenase of a number of bacteria. PQQC has been found to be required in the synthesis of PQQ but its function is unclear. The exact molecular function of members of this family is uncertain.
ARM_1	Adhesion regulating molecule conserved region. Family of eukaryotic proteins involved in cell adhesion. Members are involved in gastrulation and metastatic cancer formation. Experimental evidence suggests that members are transmembrane and possibly glycoproteins.
Cytochrom_B561	Eukaryotic cytochrome b561. Cytochrome b561 is a secretory vesicle-specific electron transport protein. It is an integral membrane protein, that binds two heme groups non-covalently. This is a eukaryotic family. Members of the 'prokaryotic cytochrome b561' family can be found in pfam01292.
DUF1908	Domain of unknown function (DUF1908). This domain is found in a set of hypothetical/structural eukaryotic proteins.
Metallophos	Calcineurin-like phosphoesterase. This family includes a diverse range of phosphoesterases, including protein phosphoserine phosphatases, nucleotidases, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterases and 2'-3' cAMP phosphodiesterases as well as nucleases such as bacterial SbcD or yeast MRE11. The most conserved regions in this superfamily centre around the metal chelating residues.
Smg4_UPF3	Smg-4/UPF3 family. This family contains proteins that are involved in nonsense mediated mRNA decay. A process that is triggered by premature stop codons in mRNA. The family includes Smg-4 and UPF3.
FGGY_N	FGGY family of carbohydrate kinases, N-terminal domain. This domain adopts a ribonuclease H-like fold and is structurally related to the C-terminal domain.
NfeD	NfeD-like. This family contains several proteins which are described as nodulation efficiency protein D (NfeD). The nfe genes (nfeA, nfeB, and nfeD) are involved in the nodulation efficiency and competitiveness of the Sinorhizobium meliloti strain GR4 on alfalfa roots. The specific function of this family is unknown although it is unlikely that NfeD is specifically involved in nodulation as the family contains several different archaeal and bacterial species most of which are not symbionts.
Trp_syntA	Tryptophan synthase alpha chain. 
Mak16	Mak16 protein. The precise function of this eukaryotic protein family is unknown. The yeast orthologues have been implicated in cell cycle progression and biogenesis of 60S ribosomal subunits. The Schistosoma mansoni Mak16 has been shown to target protein transport to the nucleolus.
Alba	Alba. Alba is a novel chromosomal protein that coats archaeal DNA without compacting it.
CoA_binding	CoA binding domain. This domain has a Rossmann fold and is found in a number of proteins including succinyl CoA synthetases, malate and ATP-citrate ligases.
STOP	STOP protein. Neurons contain abundant subsets of highly stable microtubules that resist de-polymerising conditions such as exposure to the cold. Stable microtubules are thought to be essential for neuronal development, maintenance, and function. STOP is a major factor responsible for the intriguing stability properties of neuronal microtubules and is important for synaptic plasticity. Additionally knowledge of STOPs function and properties may help in the treatment of neuroleptics in illnesses such as schizophrenia, currently thought to result from synaptic defects.
Ribosomal_L9_C	Ribosomal protein L9, C-terminal domain. 
Toxin_3	Scorpion toxin-like domain. This family contains both neurotoxins and plant defensins. The mustard trypsin inhibitor, MTI-2, is plant defensin. It is a potent inhibitor of trypsin with no activity towards chymotrypsin. MTI-2 is toxic for Lepidopteran insects, but has low activity against aphids. Brazzein is plant defensin-like protein. It is pH-stable, heat-stable and intensely sweet protein. The scorpion toxin (a neurotoxin) binds to sodium channels and inhibits the activation mechanisms of the channels, thereby blocking neuronal transmission. Scorpion toxins bind to sodium channels and inhibit the activation mechanisms of the channels, thereby blocking neuronal transmission
DUF231	Arabidopsis proteins of unknown function. 
DUF2215	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2215). This entry is the central 200 residues of a family of proteins conserved from worms to humans. The function is unknown.
Glyco_hydro_38	Glycosyl hydrolases family 38 N-terminal domain. Glycosyl hydrolases are key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism.
Tom7	TOM7 family. This family consists of TOM7 family of mitochondrial import receptors. TOM7 forms part of the translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM) complex and it appears to function as a modulator of the dynamics of the mitochondrial protein transport machinery by promoting the dissociation of subunits of the outer membrane translocase.
S1FA	DNA binding protein S1FA. S1FA is a DNA-binding protein found in plants that specifically recognises the negative promoter element S1F.
KNOX2	KNOX2 domain. The MEINOX region is comprised of two domains, KNOX1 and KNOX2. KNOX1 plays a role in suppressing target gene expression. KNOX2, essential for function, is thought to be necessary for homo-dimerisation.
DUF2435	Protein of unknown function (DUF2435). This is a conserved region of approximately 400 residues which is found only in vertebrates. It is associated with HEAT domains pfam02985 in all members. The function is not known.
DUF583	Protein of unknown function, DUF583. This family contains several uncharacterised hypothetical proteins.
aPHC	Alkaline phytoceramidase (aPHC). This family consists of several eukaryotic Alkaline phytoceramidase (aPHC) sequences. Ceramidases are enzymes involved in regulating cellular levels of ceramides, sphingoid bases, and their phosphates. Alkaline phytoceramidase (aPHC) is responsible for the hydrolysis of phytoceramide.
DUF171	Uncharacterized ACR, COG2106. 
Rota_NS6	Rotavirus non-structural protein 6. 
DUF418	Protein of unknown function (DUF418). Probable integral membrane protein.
DUF218	DUF218 domain. This large family of proteins contains several highly conserved charged amino acids, suggesting this may be an enzymatic domain (Bateman A pers. obs). The family includes SanA that is involved in Vancomycin resistance. This protein may be involved in murein synthesis.
TB2_DP1_HVA22	TB2/DP1, HVA22 family. This family includes members from a wide variety of eukaryotes. It includes the TB2/DP1 (deleted in polyposis) protein, which in humans is deleted in severe forms of familial adenomatous polyposis, an autosomal dominant oncological inherited disease. The family also includes the plant protein of known similarity to TB2/DP1, the HVA22 abscisic acid-induced protein, which is thought to be a regulatory protein.
HlyIII	Haemolysin-III related. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins. This family includes a protein with hemolytic activity from Bacillus cereus. It is not clear if all the members of this family are hemolysins. It has been proposed that YOL002c encodes a Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein that plays a key role in metabolic pathways that regulate lipid and phosphate metabolism.
DUF2145	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2145). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
PI-PLC-X	Phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C, X domain. This associates with pfam00387 to form a single structural unit.
Cutinase	Cutinase. 
An_peroxidase	Animal haem peroxidase. 
Trehalose_PPase	Trehalose-phosphatase. This family consist of trehalose-phosphatases EC:3.1.3.12 these enzyme catalyse the de-phosphorylation of trehalose-6-phosphate to trehalose and orthophosphate. The aligned region is present in trehalose-phosphatases and comprises the entire length of the protein it is also found in the C-terminus of trehalose-6-phosphate synthase EC:2.4.1.15 adjacent to the trehalose-6-phosphate synthase domain - pfam00982. It would appear that the two equivalent genes in the Escherichia coli otsBA operon otsA the trehalose-6-phosphate synthase and otsB trehalose-phosphatase (this family) have undergone gene fusion in most eukaryotes. Trehalose is a common disaccharide of bacteria, fungi and invertebrates that appears to play a major role in desiccation tolerance.
DUF474	Protein of unknown function (DUF474). Family of uncharacterised Archaeal/Bacterial proteins.
SBP_bac_3	Bacterial extracellular solute-binding proteins, family 3. 
Filament_head	Intermediate filament head (DNA binding) region. This family represents the N-terminal head region of intermediate filaments. Intermediate filament heads bind DNA. Vimentin heads are able to alter nuclear architecture and chromatin distribution, and the liberation of heads by HIV-1 protease liberates may play an important role in HIV-1 associated cytopathogenesis and carcinogenesis. Phosphorylation of the head region can affect filament stability. The head has been shown to interaction with the rod domain of the same protein.
DUF124	Protein of unknown function DUF124. This prokaryotic protein family has no known function.
7TM_GPCR_Srab	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR receptor class ab chemoreceptor. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srab is part of the Sra superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'. The expression pattern of the srab genes is biologically intriguing. Of the six promoters successfully expressed in transgenic organisms, one was exclusively expressed in the tail phasmid neurons, two were exclusively expressed in a head amphid neuron, and two were expressed both in the head and tail neurons as well as a limited number of other cells.
OKR_DC_1	Orn/Lys/Arg decarboxylase, major domain. 
Lyase_1	Lyase. 
HTH_5	Bacterial regulatory protein, arsR family. Members of this family contains a DNA binding 'helix-turn-helix' motif. This family includes other proteins which are not included in the Prosite definition.
DUF839	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF839). This family consists of several bacterial proteins of unknown function that contain a predicted beta-propeller repeats.
Gln-synt_C	Glutamine synthetase, catalytic domain. 
ETC_C1_NDUFA4	ETC complex I subunit conserved region. Family of pankaryotic NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunits (EC:1.6.5.3) (EC:1.6.99.3) from complex I of the electron transport chain initially identified in Neurospora crassa as a 21 kDa protein.
Glyco_hydro_61	Glycosyl hydrolase family 61. 
NAF	NAF domain. 
Myosin_tail_1	Myosin tail. The myosin molecule is a multi-subunit complex made up of two heavy chains and four light chains it is a fundamental contractile protein found in all eukaryote cell types. This family consists of the coiled-coil myosin heavy chain tail region. The coiled-coil is composed of the tail from two molecules of myosin. These can then assemble into the macromolecular thick filament. The coiled-coil region provides the structural backbone the thick filament.
OstA_C	Organic solvent tolerance protein. Family involved in organic solvent tolerance in bacteria. The region contains several highly conserved, potentially catalytic, residues.
PPP4R2	PPP4R2. PPP4R2 (protein phosphatase 4 core regulatory subunit R2) is the regulatory subunit of the histone H2A phosphatase complex. It has been shown to confer resistance to the anticancer drug cisplatin in yeast, and may confer resistance in higher eukaryotes.
Glyco_hydro_79n	Glycosyl hydrolase family 79, N-terminal domain. Family of endo-beta-N-glucuronidase, or heparanase. Heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) play a key role in the self- assembly, insolubility and barrier properties of basement membranes and extracellular matrices. Hence, cleavage of heparan sulfate (HS) affects the integrity and functional state of tissues and thereby fundamental normal and pathological phenomena involving cell migration and response to changes in the extracellular micro-environment. Heparanase degrades HS at specific intra-chain sites. The enzyme is synthesised as a latent approximately 65 kDa protein that is processed at the N-terminus into a highly active approximately 50 kDa form. Experimental evidence suggests that heparanase may facilitate both tumour cell invasion and neovascularization, both critical steps in cancer progression. The enzyme is also involved in cell migration associated with inflammation and autoimmunity.
Kua-UEV1_localn	Kua-ubiquitin conjugating enzyme hybrid localisation domain. This domain is part of the transcript of the fusion of two genes, the UEV1, an enzymatically inactive variant of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes that regulate non-canonical elongation of ubiquitin chains, and Kua, an otherwise unknown gene. UEV1A is a nuclear protein, whereas both Kua and Kua-UEV localise to cytoplasmic structures, indicating that the addition of a Kua domain to UEV confers new biological properties. UEV1-Kua carries the B domain with its characteristic double histidine motif, and it is probably this domain which determines the cytoplasmic localisation. It is postulated that this hybrid transcript could preferentially direct the variant polyubiquitination of substrates closely associated with the cytoplasmic face of the endoplasmic reticulum, possibly, although not necessarily, in conjunction with membrane-bound ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes.
S-AdoMet_synt_M	S-adenosylmethionine synthetase, central domain. The three domains of S-adenosylmethionine synthetase have the same alpha+beta fold.
YABBY	YABBY protein. YABBY proteins are a group of plant-specific transcription involved in the specification of abaxial polarity in lateral organs.
DNA_ligase_aden	NAD-dependent DNA ligase adenylation domain. DNA ligases catalyse the crucial step of joining the breaks in duplex DNA during DNA replication, repair and recombination, utilising either ATP or NAD(+) as a cofactor. This domain is the catalytic adenylation domain. The NAD+ group is covalently attached to this domain at the lysine in the KXDG motif of this domain. This enzyme- adenylate intermediate is an important feature of the proposed catalytic mechanism.
Pribosyltran	Phosphoribosyl transferase domain. This family includes a range of diverse phosphoribosyl transferase enzymes. This family includes: Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase EC:2.4.2.7. Hypoxanthine-guanine-xanthine phosphoribosyltransferase. Hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase EC:2.4.2.8. Ribose-phosphate pyrophosphokinase i EC:2.7.6.1. Amidophosphoribosyltransferase EC:2.4.2.14. Orotate phosphoribosyltransferase EC:2.4.2.10. Uracil phosphoribosyltransferase EC:2.4.2.9. Xanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase EC:2.4.2.22.
DUF1903	Domain of unknown function (DUF1903). Members of this family adopt a coiled coil structure, with two antiparallel alpha-helices that are tightly strapped together by two disulfide bridges at each end. The protein sequence shows a cysteine motif, required for the stabilisation of the coiled-coil-like structure. Additional inter-helix hydrophobic contacts impart stability to this scaffold. The precise function of this eukaryotic domain is, as yet, unknown.
Ku_N	Ku70/Ku80 N-terminal alpha/beta domain. The Ku heterodimer (composed of Ku70 and Ku80) contributes to genomic integrity through its ability to bind DNA double-strand breaks and facilitate repair by the non-homologous end-joining pathway. This is the amino terminal alpha/beta domain. This domain only makes a small contribution to the dimer interface. The domain comprises a six stranded beta sheet of the Rossman fold.
Memo	Memo-like protein. This family contains members from all branches of life. The molecular function of this protein is unknown, but Memo (mediator of ErbB2-driven cell motility) a human protein is included in this family. It has been suggested that Memo controls cell migration by relaying extracellular chemotactic signals to the microtubule cytoskeleton.
LEAP-2	Liver-expressed antimicrobial peptide 2 precursor (LEAP-2). This family consists of several mammalian liver-expressed antimicrobial peptide 2 (LEAP-2) sequences. LEAP-2 is a cysteine-rich, and cationic protein. LEAP-2 contains a core structure with two disulfide bonds formed by cysteine residues in relative 1-3 and 2-4 positions. LEAP-2 is synthesised as a 77-residue precursor, which is predominantly expressed in the liver and highly conserved among mammals. The largest native LEAP-2 form of 40 amino acid residues is generated from the precursor at a putative cleavage site for a furin-like endoprotease. In contrast to smaller LEAP-2 variants, this peptide exhibits dose-dependent antimicrobial activity against selected microbial model organisms. The exact function of this family is unclear.
Methyltransf_7	SAM dependent carboxyl methyltransferase. This family of plant methyltransferases contains enzymes that act on a variety of substrates including salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and 7-Methylxanthine. Caffeine is synthesised through sequential three-step methylation of xanthine derivatives at positions 7-N, 3-N, and 1-N. The protein 7-methylxanthine methyltransferase (designated as CaMXMT) catalyses the second step to produce theobromine.
DUF1466	Protein of unknown function (DUF1466). This family consists of several hypothetical mammalian proteins of around 240 residues in length.
Phosphoesterase	Phosphoesterase family. This family includes both bacterial phospholipase C enzymes EC:3.1.4.3, but also eukaryotic acid phosphatases EC:3.1.3.2.
Asparaginase_2	Asparaginase. 
FOP_dimer	FOP N terminal dimerisation domain. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) oncogene partner (FOP) is a centrosomal protein that is involved in anchoring microtubules to subcellular structures. This domain includes a Lis-homology motif. It forms an alpha helical bundle and is involved in dimerisation.
Sec23_helical	Sec23/Sec24 helical domain. COPII-coated vesicles carry proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi complex. This vesicular transport can be reconstituted by using three cytosolic components containing five proteins: the small GTPase Sar1p, the Sec23p/24p complex, and the Sec13p/Sec31p complex. This domain is composed of five alpha helices.
NodS	Nodulation protein S (NodS). This family consists of nodulation S (NodS) proteins. The products of the rhizobial nodulation genes are involved in the biosynthesis of lipochitin oligosaccharides (LCOs), which are host-specific signal molecules required for nodule formation. NodS is an S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM)-dependent methyltransferase involved in N methylation of LCOs. NodS uses N-deacetylated chitooligosaccharides, the products of the NodBC proteins, as its methyl acceptors.
SRPRB	Signal recognition particle receptor beta subunit. The beta subunit of the signal recognition particle receptor (SRP) is a transmembrane GTPase which anchors the alpha subunit to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
Sigma70_r2	Sigma-70 region 2. Region 2 of sigma-70 is the most conserved region of the entire protein. All members of this class of sigma-factor contain region 2. The high conservation is due to region 2 containing both the -10 promoter recognition helix and the primary core RNA polymerase binding determinant. The core binding helix, interacts with the clamp domain of the largest polymerase subunit, beta prime. The aromatic residues of the recognition helix, found at the C-terminus of this domain are though to mediate strand separation, thereby allowing transcription initiation.
NGP1NT	NGP1NT (NUC091) domain. This N terminal domain is found in a subfamily of hypothetical nucleolar GTP-binding proteins similar to human NGP1.
TAF4	Transcription initiation factor TFIID component TAF4 family. This region of similarity is found in Transcription initiation factor TFIID component TAF4.
SBP_bac_7	Bacterial extracellular solute-binding protein, family 7. This family of proteins are involved in binding extracellular solutes for transport across the bacterial cytoplasmic membrane. This family includes a C4-dicarboxylate-binding protein and the sialic acid-binding protein SiaP. The structure of the SiaP receptor has revealed an overall topology similar to ATP binding cassette ESR (extracytoplasmic solute receptors) proteins. Upon binding of sialic acid, SiaP undergoes domain closure about a hinge region and kinking of an alpha-helix hinge component.
KA1	Kinase associated domain 1. 
Mesothelin	Pre-pro-megakaryocyte potentiating factor precursor (Mesothelin). This family consists of several mammalian pre-pro-megakaryocyte potentiating factor precursor (MPF) or mesothelin proteins. Mesothelin is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked glycoprotein highly expressed in mesothelial cells, mesotheliomas, and ovarian cancer, but the biological function of the protein is not known.
DUF906	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF906). 
OCD_Mu_crystall	Ornithine cyclodeaminase/mu-crystallin family. This family contains the bacterial Ornithine cyclodeaminase enzyme EC:4.3.1.12, which catalyses the deamination of ornithine to proline. This family also contains mu-Crystallin the major component of the eye lens in several Australian marsupials, mRNA for this protein has also been found in human retina.
Enolase_C	Enolase, C-terminal TIM barrel domain. 
Acyl-CoA_dh_N	Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, N-terminal domain. The N-terminal domain of Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase is an all-alpha domain.
NifU	NifU-like domain. This is an alignment of the carboxy-terminal domain. This is the only common region between the NifU protein from nitrogen-fixing bacteria and rhodobacterial species. The biochemical function of NifU is unknown.
Ribosomal_S10	Ribosomal protein S10p/S20e. This family includes small ribosomal subunit S10 from prokaryotes and S20 from eukaryotes.
MatK_N	MatK/TrnK amino terminal region. The function of this region is unknown.
DUF2134	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2134). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
PsbL	PsbL protein. This family consists of the photosystem II reaction centre protein PsbJ from plants and Cyanobacteria. The function of this small protein is unknown. Interestingly the mRNA for this protein requires a post-transcriptional modification of an ACG triplet to form an AUG initiator codon.
Nramp	Natural resistance-associated macrophage protein. The natural resistance-associated macrophage protein (NRAMP) family consists of Nramp1, Nramp2, and yeast proteins Smf1 and Smf2. The NRAMP family is a novel family of functional related proteins defined by a conserved hydrophobic core of ten transmembrane domains. This family of membrane proteins are divalent cation transporters. Nramp1 is an integral membrane protein expressed exclusively in cells of the immune system and is recruited to the membrane of a phagosome upon phagocytosis. By controlling divalent cation concentrations Nramp1 may regulate the interphagosomal replication of bacteria. Mutations in Nramp1 may genetically predispose an individual to susceptibility to diseases including leprosy and tuberculosis conversely this might however provide protection form rheumatoid arthritis. Nramp2 is a multiple divalent cation transporter for Fe2+, Mn2+ and Zn2+ amongst others it is expressed at high levels in the intestine; and is major transferrin-independent iron uptake system in mammals. The yeast proteins Smf1 and Smf2 may also transport divalent cations.
IWS1_C	IWS1 C-terminus. This family consists of a the C terminal region of a number of eukaryotic hypothetical proteins which are homologous to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein IWS1. IWS1 is known to be an Pol II transcription elongation factor and interacts with Spt6 and Spt5.
Tcp11	T-complex protein 11. This family consists of several eukaryotic T-complex protein 11 (Tcp11) related sequences. Tcp11 is only expressed in fertile adult mammalian testes and is thought to be important in sperm function and fertility. The family also contains the yeast Sok1 protein which is known to suppress cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase mutants.
Ldh_2	Malate/L-lactate dehydrogenase. This family consists of bacterial and archaeal Malate/L-lactate dehydrogenase. L-lactate dehydrogenase, EC:1.1.1.27, catalyses the reaction (S)-lactate + NAD(+) <=> pyruvate + NADH. Malate dehydrogenase, EC:1.1.1.37 and EC:1.1.1.82, catalyses the reactions: (S)-malate + NAD(+) <=> oxaloacetate + NADH, and (S)-malate + NADP(+) <=> oxaloacetate + NADPH respectively.
Papo_T_antigen	T-antigen specific domain. This domain represents a conserved region in papovavirus small and middle T-antigens. It is found as the N-terminal domain in the small T-antigen, and is centrally located in the middle T-antigen.
DUF544	Protein of unknown function (DUF544). Eukaryotic protein of unknown function.
Lipoprotein_15	Secreted repeat of unknown function. This family occurs as tandem repeats in a set of lipoproteins. The alignment contains a Y-X4-D motif.
CtaG_Cox11	Cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein CtaG / Cox11. Cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein is essential for the assembly of functional cytochrome oxidase protein. In eukaryotes it is an integral protein of the mitochondrial inner membrane. Cox11 is essential for the insertion of Cu(I) ions to form the CuB site. This is essential for the stability of other structures in subunit I, for example haems a and a3, and the magnesium/manganese centre. Cox11 is probably only required in sub-stoichiometric amounts relative to the structural units. The C terminal region of the protein is known to form a dimer. Each monomer coordinates one Cu(I) ion via three conserved cysteine residues (111, 208 and 210) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Met 224 is also thought to play a role in copper transfer or stabilising the copper site.
CLPTM1	Cleft lip and palate transmembrane protein 1 (CLPTM1). This family consists of several eukaryotic cleft lip and palate transmembrane protein 1 sequences. Cleft lip with or without cleft palate is a common birth defect that is genetically complex. The nonsyndromic forms have been studied genetically using linkage and candidate-gene association studies with only partial success in defining the loci responsible for orofacial clefting. CLPTM1 encodes a transmembrane protein and has strong homology to two Caenorhabditis elegans genes, suggesting that CLPTM1 may belong to a new gene family. This family also contains the human cisplatin resistance related protein CRR9p which is associated with CDDP-induced apoptosis.
Conotoxin	Conotoxin. Conotoxins are small snail toxins that block ion channels.
DENN	DENN (AEX-3) domain. DENN (after differentially expressed in neoplastic vs normal cells) is a domain which occurs in several proteins involved in Rab- mediated processes or regulation of MAPK signalling pathways.
Pyridox_oxidase	Pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate oxidase. 
Peptidase_S58	Peptidase family S58. 
TIG	IPT/TIG domain. This family consists of a domain that has an immunoglobulin like fold. These domains are found in cell surface receptors such as Met and Ron as well as in intracellular transcription factors where it is involved in DNA binding. CAUTION: This family does not currently recognise a significant number of members.
IL11	Interleukin 11. This family contains interleukin 11 (approximately 200 residues long). This is a secreted protein that stimulates megakaryocytopoiesis, resulting in increased production of platelets, as well as activating osteoclasts, inhibiting epithelial cell proliferation and apoptosis, and inhibiting macrophage mediator production. These functions may be particularly important in mediating the hematopoietic, osseous and mucosal protective effects of interleukin 11. Family members seem to be restricted to mammals.
Lactamase_B	Metallo-beta-lactamase superfamily. 
VMA21	VMA21-like domain. This presumed short domain appears to contain two potential transmembrane helices. VMA21 is localised in the ER where it is needed as an accessory factor for assembly of the V0 component of the vacuolar ATPase.
PepX_C	X-Pro dipeptidyl-peptidase C-terminal non-catalytic domain. This domain contains a beta sandwich domain.
Mem_trans	Membrane transport protein. This family includes auxin efflux carrier proteins and other transporter proteins from all domains of life.
OTU	OTU-like cysteine protease. This family is comprised of a group of predicted cysteine proteases, homologous to the Ovarian Tumour (OTU) gene in Drosophila. Members include proteins from eukaryotes, viruses and pathogenic bacterium. The conserved cysteine and histidine, and possibly the aspartate, represent the catalytic residues in this putative group of proteases.
DUF1685	Protein of unknown function (DUF1685). The members of this family are hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. The region in question is approximately 100 amino acid residues long.
PPTA	Protein prenyltransferase alpha subunit repeat. Both farnesyltransferase (FT) and geranylgeranyltransferase 1 (GGT1) recognise a CaaX motif on their substrates where 'a' stands for preferably aliphatic residues, whereas GGT2 recognises a completely different motif. Important substrates for FT include, amongst others, many members of the Ras superfamily. GGT1 substrates include some of the other small GTPases and GGT2 substrates include the Rab family.
DUF1032	Protein of unknown function (DUF1032). This family consists of several conserved eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
Fez1	Fez1. This family represents the eukaryotic Fez1 protein. Fez1 contains a leucine-zipper region with similarity to the DNA-binding domain of the cAMP-responsive activating-transcription factor 5. There is evidence that Fez1 inhibits cancer cell growth through regulation of mitosis, and that its alterations result in abnormal cell growth. Note that some family members contain more than one copy of this region.
AlaDh_PNT_N	Alanine dehydrogenase/PNT, N-terminal domain. This family now also contains the lysine 2-oxoglutarate reductases.
SANTA	SANTA (SANT Associated). The SANTA domain (SANT Associated domain) is approximately 90 amino acids in length and is conserved in Eukaryota. It is sometimes found in association with the SANT domain (pfam00249, also known as Myb-like DNA-binding domain) implying a putative function in regulating chromatin remodelling. Sequence analysis has showed that the SANTA domain is likely to form four central beta-sheets with three flanking alpha- helixes. Many conserved hydrophobic residues are present which implying a possible role in protein-protein interactions.
LemA	LemA family. The members of this family are related to the LemA protein. LemA contains an amino terminal predicted transmembrane helix. It has been predicted that the small amino terminus is extracellular. The exact molecular function of this protein is uncertain.
K_trans	K+ potassium transporter. This is a family of K+ potassium transporters that are conserved across phyla, having both bacterial (KUP), yeast (HAK), and plant (AtKT) sequences as members.
GLTP	Glycolipid transfer protein (GLTP). GLTP is a cytosolic protein that catalyses the intermembrane transfer of glycolipids.
DUF982	Protein of unknown function (DUF982). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins from Rhizobium meliloti, Rhizobium loti and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The function of this family is unknown.
ARID	ARID/BRIGHT DNA binding domain. This domain is know as ARID for AT-Rich Interaction Domain, and also known as the BRIGHT domain.
QLQ	QLQ. The QLQ domain is named after the conserved Gln, Leu, Gln motif. The QLQ domain is found at the N-terminus of SWI2/SNF2 protein, which has been shown to be involved in protein-protein interactions. This domain has thus been postulated to be involved in mediating protein interactions.
CytB6-F_Fe-S	Cytochrome B6-F complex Fe-S subunit. The cytochrome B6-F complex mediates electron transfer between photosystem II (PSII) and photosystem I (PSI), cyclic electron flow around PSI, and state transitions. This domain corresponds to the alpha helical transmembrane domain of the cytochrome B6-F complex iron-sulphur subunit.
Coprogen_oxidas	Coproporphyrinogen III oxidase. 
DPM2	Dolichol phosphate-mannose biosynthesis regulatory protein (DPM2). This family consists of several eukaryotic dolichol phosphate-mannose biosynthesis regulatory (DPM2) proteins. Biosynthesis of glycosylphosphatidylinositol and N-glycan precursor is dependent upon a mannosyl donor, dolichol phosphate-mannose (DPM). DPM2, an 84 amino acid membrane protein expressed in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), makes a complex with DPM1 that is essential for the ER localisation and stable expression of DPM1. Moreover, DPM2 enhances binding of dolichol phosphate, a substrate of DPM synthase. Biosynthesis of DPM in mammalian cells is regulated by DPM2.
Nup88	Nuclear pore component. Nup88 can be divided into two structural domains; the N-terminal two-thirds of the protein has no obvious structural motifs but is the region for binding to Nup98, one of the components of the nuclear pore. the C-terminal end is a predicted coiled-coil domain. Nup88 is overexpressed in tumour cells.
DUF2125	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2125). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
NARG2_C	NMDA receptor-regulated gene protein 2. The transition of neuronal cells from pre-cursor to mature state is regulated by the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, a glutamate-gated ion channel that is permeable to Ca2+. NMDA receptors probably mediate this activity by permitting expression of NARG2. NARG2 is transiently expressed, being a regulatory protein that is present in the nucleus of dividing cells and then down-regulated as progenitors exit the cell cycle and begin to differentiate. NARG2 contains repeats of (S/T)PXX, (11 in mouse, six in human), a putative DNA-binding motif that is found in many gene-regulatory proteins including Kruppel, Hunchback and Antennapedi.
DUF952	Protein of unknown function (DUF952). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial and plant proteins of unknown function.
Vps35	Vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 35. Vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein (Vps) 35 is one of around 50 proteins involved in protein trafficking. In particular, Vps35 assembles into a retromer complex with at least four other proteins Vps5, Vps17, Vps26 and Vps29. Vps35 contains a central region of weaker sequence similarity, thought to indicate the presence of at least three domains.
DUF248	Putative methyltransferase. Members of this family of hypothetical plant proteins are probably methyltransferases: several of the aligned sequences either match the methyltransferase profile, or contain a SAM-binding motif. A protein from Arabidopsis thaliana contains both. Several family members are described as ankyrin like.
DUF601	Protein of unknown function, DUF601. This family represents a conserved region found in several uncharacterised plant proteins.
Tom22	Mitochondrial import receptor subunit Tom22. The mitochondrial protein translocase family, which is responsible for movement of nuclear encoded preproteins into mitochondria, is very complex with at least 19 components. These proteins include several chaperone proteins, four proteins of the outer membrane translocase (Tom) import receptor, five proteins of the Tom channel complex, five proteins of the inner membrane translocase (Tim) and three "motor" proteins. This family represents the Tom22 proteins.
DNA_topoisoIV	DNA gyrase/topoisomerase IV, subunit A. 
AD	Anticodon-binding domain. This domain of approximately 100 residues is conserved from plants to humans. It is frequently found in association with Lsm domain-containing proteins. It is an anticodon-binding domain of a prolyl-tRNA synthetase, whose PDB structure is available under the identifier 1h4q.
Polyketide_cyc2	Polyketide cyclase / dehydrase and lipid transport. This family contains polyketide cylcases/dehydrases which are enzymes involved in polyketide synthesis. It also includes other proteins of the START superfamily.
Coq4	Coenzyme Q (ubiquinone) biosynthesis protein Coq4. Coq4p was shown to peripherally associate with the matrix face of the mitochondrial inner membrane. The putative mitochondrial- targeting sequence present at the amino-terminus of the polypeptide efficiently imported it to mitochondria. The function of Coq4p is unknown, although its presence is required to maintain a steady-state level of Coq7p, another component of the Q biosynthetic pathway.
Fer2	2Fe-2S iron-sulfur cluster binding domain. Several members of the Prosite family are not included since they only contain the active site.
DUF336	Domain of unknown function (DUF336). This family contains uncharacterised sequences, including several GlcG proteins. The alignment contains many conserved motifs that are suggestive of cofactor binding and enzymatic activity.
Tyr-DNA_phospho	Tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase. Covalent intermediates between topoisomerase I and DNA can become dead-end complexes that lead to cell death. Tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase can hydrolyse the bond between topoisomerase I and DNA.
Rubrerythrin	Rubrerythrin. This domain has a ferritin-like fold.
PSK	Phytosulfokine precursor protein (PSK). This family consists of several plant specific phytosulfokine precursor proteins. Phytosulfokines, are active as either a pentapeptide or a C-terminally truncated tetrapeptide. These compounds were first isolated because of their ability to stimulate cell division in somatic embryo cultures of Asparagus officinalis.
DUF1434	Protein of unknown function (DUF1434). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 135 residues in length. Members of this family all appear to be Enterobacterial proteins. The function of this family is unknown.
Sigma54_DBD	Sigma-54, DNA binding domain. This DNA binding domain is based on peptide fragmentation data. This domain is proximal to DNA in the promoter/holoenzyme complex. Furthermore this region contains a putative helix-turn-helix motif. At the C-terminus, there is a highly conserved region known as the RpoN box and is the signature of the sigma-54 proteins.
Acylphosphatase	Acylphosphatase. 
DUF1278	Protein of unknown function (DUF1278). This family consists of several hypothetical plant specific proteins of around 150 residues in length. Members of this family contain several conserved cysteine residues. The function of the family is unknown.
Ribosomal_L5	Ribosomal protein L5. 
Gate	Nucleoside recognition. This region in the nucleoside transporter proteins are responsible for determining nucleoside specificity in the human CNT1 and CNT2 proteins. In the FeoB proteins, which are believed to be Fe2+ transporters, it includes the membrane pore region, so the function of this region is likely to be more general than just nucleoside specificity. This family may represent the pore and gate, with a wide potential range of specificity. Hence its name 'Gate'.
PRP1_N	PRP1 splicing factor, N-terminal. This domain is specific to the N-terminal part of the prp1 splicing factor, which is involved in mRNA splicing (and possibly also poly(A)+ RNA nuclear export and cell cycle progression). This domain is specific to the N terminus of the RNA splicing factor encoded by prp1. It is involved in mRNA splicing and possibly also poly(A)and RNA nuclear export and cell cycle progression.
TIP49	TIP49 C-terminus. This family consists of the C-terminal region of several eukaryotic and archaeal RuvB-like 1 (Pontin or TIP49a) and RuvB-like 2 (Reptin or TIP49b) proteins. The N-terminal domain contains the pfam00004 domain. In zebrafish, the liebeskummer (lik) mutation, causes development of hyperplastic embryonic hearts. lik encodes Reptin, a component of a DNA-stimulated ATPase complex. Beta-catenin and Pontin, a DNA-stimulated ATPase that is often part of complexes with Reptin, are in the same genetic pathways. The Reptin/Pontin ratio serves to regulate heart growth during development, at least in part via the beta-catenin pathway. TBP-interacting protein 49 (TIP49) was originally identified as a TBP-binding protein, and two related proteins are encoded by individual genes, tip49a and b. Although the function of this gene family has not been elucidated, they are supposed to play a critical role in nuclear events because they interact with various kinds of nuclear factors and have DNA helicase activities.TIP49a has been suggested to act as an autoantigen in some patients with autoimmune diseases.
Clathrin	Region in Clathrin and VPS. Each region is about 140 amino acids long. The regions are composed of multiple alpha helical repeats. They occur in the arm region of the Clathrin heavy chain.
FliJ	Flagellar FliJ protein. 
DUF995	Protein of unknown function (DUF995). Family of uncharacterised Proteobacteria proteins.
PsaD	PsaD. This family consists of PsaD from plants and cyanobacteria. PsaD is an extrinsic polypeptide of photosystem I (PSI) and is required for native assembly of PSI reaction clusters and is implicated in the electrostatic binding of ferredoxin within the reaction centre. PsaD forms a dimer in solution which is bound by PsaE however PsaD is monomeric in its native complexed PSI environment.
PIG-X	PIG-X / PBN1. Mammalian PIG-X and yeast PBN1 are essential components of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-mannosyltransferase I. These enzymes are involved in the transfer of sugar molecules.
Peptidase_M18	Aminopeptidase I zinc metalloprotease (M18). 
FUR	Ferric uptake regulator family. This family includes metal ion uptake regulator proteins, that bind to the operator DNA and controls transcription of metal ion-responsive genes. This family is also known as the FUR family.
Acid_phosphat_B	HAD superfamily, subfamily IIIB (Acid phosphatase). This family proteins includes acid phosphatases and a number of vegetative storage proteins.
TOM20_plant	Plant specific mitochondrial import receptor subunit TOM20. This family consists of several plant specific mitochondrial import receptor subunit TOM20 (translocase of outer membrane 20 kDa subunit) proteins. Most mitochondrial proteins are encoded by the nuclear genome, and are synthesised in the cytosol. TOM20 is a general import receptor that binds to mitochondrial pre-sequences in the early step of protein import into the mitochondria.
Calcipressin	Calcipressin. Calcipressin is also known as calcineurin-binding protein, since it inhibits calcineurin-mediated transcriptional modulation by binding to calcineurin's catalytic domain.
Catalase	Catalase. 
LAGLIDADG_1	LAGLIDADG endonuclease. 
7TMR-DISM_7TM	7TM diverse intracellular signalling. This entry represents the transmembrane region of the 7TM-DISM (7TM Receptors with Diverse Intracellular Signalling Modules).
DAG1	Dystroglycan (Dystrophin-associated glycoprotein 1). Dystroglycan is one of the dystrophin-associated glycoproteins, which is encoded by a 5.5 kb transcript in human. The protein product is cleaved into two non-covalently associated subunits, [alpha] (N-terminal) and [beta] (C-terminal). In skeletal muscle the dystroglycan complex works as a transmembrane linkage between the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton. [alpha]-dystroglycan is extracellular and binds to merosin ([alpha]-2 laminin) in the basement membrane, while [beta]-dystroglycan is a transmembrane protein and binds to dystrophin, which is a large rod-like cytoskeletal protein, absent in Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients. Dystrophin binds to intracellular actin cables. In this way, the dystroglycan complex, which links the extracellular matrix to the intracellular actin cables, is thought to provide structural integrity in muscle tissues. The dystroglycan complex is also known to serve as an agrin receptor in muscle, where it may regulate agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor clustering at the neuromuscular junction. There is also evidence which suggests the function of dystroglycan as a part of the signal transduction pathway because it is shown that Grb2, a mediator of the Ras-related signal pathway, can interact with the cytoplasmic domain of dystroglycan. In general, aberrant expression of dystrophin-associated protein complex underlies the pathogenesis of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker muscular dystrophy and severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy. Interestingly, no genetic disease has been described for either [alpha]- or [beta]-dystroglycan. Dystroglycan is widely distributed in non-muscle tissues as well as in muscle tissues. During epithelial morphogenesis of kidney, the dystroglycan complex is shown to act as a receptor for the basement membrane. Dystroglycan expression in mouse brain and neural retina has also been reported. However, the physiological role of dystroglycan in non-muscle tissues has remained unclear.
CG-1	CG-1 domain. CG-1 domains are highly conserved domains of about 130 amino-acid residues containing a predicted bipartite NLS and named after a partial cDNA clone isolated from parsley encoding a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein. CG-1 domains are associated with CAMTA proteins (for CAlModulin -binding Transcription Activator) that are transcription factors containing a calmodulin -binding domain and ankyrins (ANK) motifs.
Rhodanese	Rhodanese-like domain. Rhodanese has an internal duplication. This Pfam represents a single copy of this duplicated domain. The domain is found as a single copy in other proteins, including phosphatases and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolases.
Ribosomal_S11	Ribosomal protein S11. 
Transposase_31	Putative transposase, YhgA-like. This family of putative transposases includes the YhgA sequence from Escherichia coli and several prokaryotic homologues.
PTR2	POT family. The POT (proton-dependent oligopeptide transport) family all appear to be proton dependent transporters.
Phage_GPA	Bacteriophage replication gene A protein (GPA). This family consists of a group of bacteriophage replication gene A protein (GPA) like sequences from both viruses and bacteria. The members of this family are likely to be endonucleases.
RNA_pol_Rpc4	RNA polymerase III RPC4. Specific subunit for Pol III, the tRNA specific polymerase.
GreA_GreB	Prokaryotic transcription elongation factor, GreA/GreB, C-terminal domain. This domain has a FKBP-like fold.
ATP-synt_G	Mitochondrial ATP synthase g subunit. The Fo sector of the ATP synthase is a membrane bound complex which mediates proton transport. It is composed of nine different polypeptide subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g F6, A6L). The function of subunit g is currently unknown. The conserved region covers all but the very N-terminus of the member sequences. No prokaryotic members have been identified thus far.
SYF2	SYF2 splicing factor. Proteins in this family are involved in cell cycle progression and pre-mRNA splicing.
Peptidase_M16	Insulinase (Peptidase family M16). 
DUF1247	Protein of unknown function (DUF1247). This family contains a number of hypothetical viral proteins of unknown function approximately 200 residues long.
Pirin_C	Pirin C-terminal cupin domain. This region is found the C-terminal half of the Pirin protein.
Cellulose_synt	Cellulose synthase. Cellulose, an aggregate of unbranched polymers of beta-1,4-linked glucose residues, is the major component of wood and thus paper, and is synthesised by plants, most algae, some bacteria and fungi, and even some animals. The genes that synthesise cellulose in higher plants differ greatly from the well-characterised genes found in Acetobacter and Agrobacterium sp. More correctly designated as 'cellulose synthase catalytic subunits', plant cellulose synthase (CesA) proteins are integral membrane proteins, approximately 1,000 amino acids in length. There are a number of highly conserved residues, including several motifs shown to be necessary for processive glycosyltransferase activity.
Parvo_coat	Parvovirus coat protein VP2. This protein, together with VP1 forms a capsomer. Both of these proteins are formed from the same transcript using alternative splicing. As a result, VP1 and VP2 differ only in the N-terminal region of VP1. VP2 is involved in packaging the viral DNA.
Kazal_1	Kazal-type serine protease inhibitor domain. Usually indicative of serine protease inhibitors. However, kazal-like domains are also seen in the extracellular part of agrins, which are not known to be protease inhibitors. Kazal domains often occur in tandem arrays. Small alpha+beta fold containing three disulphides. Alignment also includes a single domain from transporters in the OATP/PGT family.
Granin	Granin (chromogranin or secretogranin). 
Polyketide_cyc	Polyketide cyclase / dehydrase and lipid transport. This family contains polyketide cylcases/dehydrases which are enzymes involved in polyketide synthesis. The family also includes proteins which are involved in the binding/transport of lipids.
Bac_Ubq_Cox	Bacterial Cytochrome Ubiquinol Oxidase. This family are the alternative oxidases found in many bacteria which oxidise ubiquinol and reduce oxygen as part of the electron transport chain. This family is the subunit I of the oxidase Escherichia coli has two copies of the oxidase, bo and bd', both of which are represented here In some nitrogen fixing bacteria, e.g. Klebsiella pneumoniae this oxidase is responsible for removing oxygen in microaerobic conditions, making the oxidase required for nitrogen fixation. This subunit binds a single b-haem, through ligands at His186 and Met393 (using SW:P11026 numbering). In addition His19 is a ligand for the haem b found in subunit II
DUF1022	Protein of unknown function (DUF1022). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic and prokaryotic proteins. The function of this family is unknown.
TrmE_N	GTP-binding protein TrmE N-terminus. This family represents the shorter, B, chain of the homo-dimeric structure which is a guanine nucleotide-binding protein that binds and hydrolyses GTP. TrmE is homologous to the tetrahydrofolate-binding domain of N,N-dimethylglycine oxidase and indeed binds formyl-tetrahydrofolate. TrmE actively participates in the formylation reaction of uridine and regulates the ensuing hydrogenation reaction of a Schiff's base intermediate. This B chain is the N-terminal portion of the protein consisting of five beta-strands and three alpha helices and is necessary for mediating dimer formation within the protein.
Put_Phosphatase	Putative Phosphatase. This family contains a number of putative eukaryotic acid phosphatases. Some family members represent the products of the PSI14 phosphatase family in Lycopersicon esculentum (Tomato).
Glu_synthase	Conserved region in glutamate synthase. This family represents a region of the glutamate synthase protein. This region is expressed as a separate subunit in the glutamate synthase alpha subunit from archaebacteria, or part of a large multidomain enzyme in other organisms. The aligned region of these proteins contains a putative FMN binding site and Fe-S cluster.
DUF115	Protein of unknown function DUF115. This family of archaebacterial proteins has no known function.
COX7a	Cytochrome c oxidase subunit VIIa. Cytochrome c oxidase, a 13 sub-unit complex, is the terminal oxidase in the mitochondrial electron transport chain. This family is composed of the heart and liver isoforms of cytochrome c oxidase subunit VIIa.
Coatomer_WDAD	Coatomer WD associated region. 
SAICAR_synt	SAICAR synthetase. Also known as Phosphoribosylaminoimidazole-succinocarboxamide synthase.
APG12	Ubiquitin-like autophagy protein Apg12. In yeast, 15 Apg proteins coordinate the formation of autophagosomes. Autophagy is a bulk degradation process induced by starvation in eukaryotic cells. The Apg12 system is one of the ubiquitin-like protein conjugation systems conserved in eukaryotes. It was first discovered in yeast during systematic analyses of the apg mutants defective in autophagy. Covalent attachment of Apg12-Apg5 is essential for autophagy.
DUF292	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function, DUF292. 
PHA_synth_III_E	Poly(R)-hydroxyalkanoic acid synthase subunit (PHA_synth_III_E). This entry represents the PhaE subunit of the heterodimeric class (class III) of polymerase for poly(R)-hydroxyalkanoic acids (PHAs), carbon and energy storage polymers of many bacteria. The most common PHA is polyhydroxybutyrate but about 150 different constituent hydroxyalkanoic acids (HAs) have been identified in various species.
DUF563	Protein of unknown function (DUF563). Family of uncharacterised proteins.
STT3	Oligosaccharyl transferase STT3 subunit. This family consists of the oligosaccharyl transferase STT3 subunit and related proteins. The STT3 subunit is part of the oligosaccharyl transferase (OTase) complex of proteins and is required for its activity. OTase transfers a lipid-linked core-oligosaccharide to selected asparagine residues in the ER.
BAP	Basal layer antifungal peptide (BAP). This family consists of several basal layer antifungal peptide (BAP) sequences specific to Zea mays. The BAP2 peptide exhibits potent broad-range activity against a range of filamentous fungi, including several plant pathogens.
DUF1070	Protein of unknown function (DUF1070). This family consists of several short hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function.
DUF668	Protein of unknown function (DUF668). Uncharacterised plant protein.
DUF511	Protein of unknown function (DUF511). Bacterial protein of unknown function.
Phage_integr_N	Phage integrase, N-terminal SAM-like domain. 
COG2	COG (conserved oligomeric Golgi) complex component, COG2. The COG complex comprises eight proteins COG1-8. The COG complex plays critical roles in Golgi structure and function. The proposed function of the complex is to mediate the initial physical contact between transport vesicles and their membrane targets. A comparable role in tethering vesicles has been suggested for at least six additional large multisubunit complexes, including the exocyst, a complex that mediates trafficking to the plasma membrane. COG2 structure reveals a six-helix bundle with few conserved surface features but a general resemblance to recently determined crystal structures of four different exocyst subunits. These bundles inCOG2 may act as platforms for interaction with other trafficing proteins including SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide factor attachment protein receptors) and Rabs.
ACOX	Acyl-CoA oxidase. This is a family of Acyl-CoA oxidases EC:1.3.3.6. Acyl-coA oxidase converts acyl-CoA into trans-2- enoyl-CoA.
Pyr_redox_dim	Pyridine nucleotide-disulphide oxidoreductase, dimerisation domain. This family includes both class I and class II oxidoreductases and also NADH oxidases and peroxidases.
APC8	Anaphase promoting complex subunit 8 / Cdc23. The anaphase-promoting complex is composed of eight protein subunits, including BimE (APC1), CDC27 (APC3), CDC16 (APC6), and CDC23 (APC8).
Pex14_N	Peroxisomal membrane anchor protein (Pex14p) conserved region. Family of peroxisomal membrane anchor proteins which bind the PTS1 (peroxisomal targeting signal) receptor and are required for the import of PTS1-containing proteins into peroxisomes. Loss of functional Pex14p results in defects in both the PTS1 and PTS2-dependent import pathways. Deletion analysis of this conserved region implicates it in selective peroxisome degradation. In the majority of members this region is situated at the N-terminus of the protein.
DUF1853	Domain of unknown function (DUF1853). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised.
ELL	RNA polymerase II elongation factor ELL. ELL is a family of RNA polymerase II elongation factors. It is bound stably to elongation-associated factors 1 and 2, EAFs, and together these act as a strong regulator of transcription activity. by direct interaction with Pol II. ELL binds to pol II on its own but the affinity is greatly increased by the cooperation of EAF. Some members carry an Occludin domain pfam07303 just downstream. There is no Saccharomyces cerevisiae member.
Gamma-COP	Coatomer gamma subunit appendage domain. COPI-coated vesicles function in retrograde transport from the Golgi to the ER, and in intra-Golgi transport. This domain corresponds to the coatomer gamma subunit appendage domain. It contains a protein-protein interaction site and a second proposed binding site that interacts with the alpha, beta,epsilon COPI subcomplex.
zf-DNL	DNL zinc finger. The domain is named after a short C-terminal motif of D(N/H)L. This domain is a novel zinc-finger protein essential for protein import into mitochondria.
DnaB_2	Replication initiation and membrane attachment protein (DnaB). This family consists of several bacterial replication initiation and membrane attachment (DnaB) proteins. The DnaB protein is essential for both replication initiation and membrane attachment of the origin region of the chromosome and plasmid pUB110 in Bacillus subtilis. It is known that there are two different classes (DnaBI and DnaBII) in the DnaB mutants; DnaBI is essential for both chromosome and pUB110 replication, whereas DnaBII is necessary only for chromosome replication.
FecCD	FecCD transport family. This is a sub-family of bacterial binding protein-dependent transport systems family. This Pfam entry contains the inner components of this multicomponent transport system.
CN_hydrolase	Carbon-nitrogen hydrolase. This family contains hydrolases that break carbon-nitrogen bonds. The family includes: Nitrilase EC:3.5.5.1, Aliphatic amidase EC:3.5.1.4, Biotidinase EC:3.5.1.12, Beta-ureidopropionase EC:3.5.1.6. Nitrilase-related proteins generally have a conserved E-K-C catalytic triad, and are multimeric alpha-beta-beta-alpha sandwich proteins.
DUF1443	Protein of unknown function (DUF1443). This family consists of several Baculovirus proteins of around 55 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF629	Protein of unknown function (DUF629). This family represents a region of several plant proteins of unknown function. A C2H2 zinc finger is predicted in this region in some family members, but the spacing between the cysteine residues is not conserved throughout the family.
IpaC_SipC	Salmonella-Shigella invasin protein C (IpaC_SipC). This entry represents a family of proteins associated with bacterial type III secretion systems, which are injection machines for virulence factors into host cell cytoplasm. Characterized members of this protein family are known to be secreted and are described as invasins, including IpaC from Shigella flexneri and SipC from Salmonella typhimurium. Members may be referred to as invasins, pathogenicity island effectors, and cell invasion proteins.
Lipoprotein_9	NLPA lipoprotein. This family of bacterial lipoproteins contains several antigenic members, that may be involved in bacterial virulence. Their precise function is unknown. However they are probably distantly related to pfam00497 which are solute binding proteins.
Transposase_7	Transposase. This family includes transposases of Tn3, Tn21, Tn1721, Tn2501, Tn3926 transposons from E-coli. The specific binding of the Tn3 transposase to DNA has been demonstrated. Sequence analysis has suggested that the invariant triad of Asp689, Asp765, Glu895 (numbering as in Tn3) may correspond to the D-D-35-E motif previously implicated in the catalysis of numerous transposases.
FAD_binding_1	FAD binding domain. This domain is found in sulfite reductase, NADPH cytochrome P450 reductase, Nitric oxide synthase and methionine synthase reductase.
Endotoxin_M	delta endotoxin. This family contains insecticidal toxins produced by Bacillus species of bacteria. During spore formation the bacteria produce crystals of this protein. When an insect ingests these proteins they are activated by proteolytic cleavage. The N terminus is cleaved in all of the proteins and a C terminal extension is cleaved in some members. Once activated the endotoxin binds to the gut epithelium and causes cell lysis leading to death. This activated region of the delta endotoxin is composed of three structural domains. The N-terminal helical domain is involved in membrane insertion and pore formation. The second and third domains are involved in receptor binding.
DUF1184	Protein of unknown function (DUF1184). This family contains a number of hypothetical proteins of unknown function from Arabidopsis thaliana.
VKG_Carbox	Vitamin K-dependent gamma-carboxylase. Using reduced vitamin K, oxygen, and carbon dioxide, gamma-glutamyl carboxylase post-translationally modifies certain glutamates by adding carbon dioxide to the gamma position of those amino acids. In vertebrates, the modification of glutamate residues of target proteins is facilitated by an interaction between a propeptide present on target proteins and the gamma-glutamyl carboxylase.
Sec7	Sec7 domain. The Sec7 domain is a guanine-nucleotide-exchange-factor (GEF) for the pfam00025 family.
Aconitase_C	Aconitase C-terminal domain. Members of this family usually also match to pfam00330. This domain undergoes conformational change in the enzyme mechanism.
RNA_pol_Rbc25	RNA polymerase III subunit Rpc25. Rpc25 is a strongly conserved subunit of RNA polymerase III and has homology to Rpa43 in RNA polymerase I, Rpb7 in RNA polymerase II and the archaeal RpoE subunit. Rpc25 is required for transcription initiation and is not essential for the elongating properties of RNA polymerase III.
Peptidase_M10_C	Peptidase M10 serralysin C terminal. Serralysins are peptidases related to mammalian matrix metallopeptidases (MMPs). The peptidase unit is found at the N terminal while this domain at the C terminal forms a corkscrew and is thought to be important for secretion of the protein through the bacterial cell wall. This domain contains the calcium ion binding domain pfam00353.
Peptidase_M1	Peptidase family M1. Members of this family are aminopeptidases. The members differ widely in specificity, hydrolysing acidic, basic or neutral N-terminal residues. This family includes leukotriene-A4 hydrolase, this enzyme also has an aminopeptidase activity.
Carboxyl_trans	Carboxyl transferase domain. All of the members in this family are biotin dependent carboxylases. The carboxyl transferase domain carries out the following reaction; transcarboxylation from biotin to an acceptor molecule. There are two recognised types of carboxyl transferase. One of them uses acyl-CoA and the other uses 2-oxoacid as the acceptor molecule of carbon dioxide. All of the members in this family utilise acyl-CoA as the acceptor molecule.
Ded_cyto	Dedicator of cytokinesis. This family represents a conserved region approximately 200 residues long within a number of eukaryotic dedicator of cytokinesis proteins. These are potential guanine nucleotide exchange factors, which activate some small GTPases by exchanging bound GDP for free GTP.
DUF893	Bacterial membrane protein of unknown function (DUF893). This family consists of several putative bacterial membrane proteins of unknown function.
EF_TS	Elongation factor TS. 
Coagulase	Staphylococcus aureus coagulase. Staphylococcus aureus secretes a cofactor called coagulase. Coagulase is an extracellular protein that forms a complex with human prothrombin, and activates it without the usual proteolytic cleavages. The resulting complex directly initiates blood clotting.
DUF37	Domain of unknown function DUF37. This domain is found in short (70 amino acid) hypothetical proteins from various bacteria. The domain contains three conserved cysteine residues. A member from Aeromonas hydrophila has been found to have hemolytic activity (unpublished).
Hydantoinase_B	Hydantoinase B/oxoprolinase. This family includes N-methylhydaintoinase B which converts hydantoin to N-carbamyl-amino acids, and 5-oxoprolinase EC:3.5.2.9 which catalyses the formation of L-glutamate from 5-oxo-L-proline. These enzymes are part of the oxoprolinase family and are related to pfam01968.
ATP-cone	ATP cone domain. 
Sas10_Utp3	Sas10/Utp3/C1D family. This family contains Utp3 and LCP5 which are components of the U3 ribonucleoprotein complex. It also includes the human C1D protein and Saccharomyces cerevisiae YHR081W (rrp47), an exosome-associated protein required for the 3' processing of stable RNAs, and Sas10 which has been identified as a regulator of chromatin silencing. This family also includes the human protein Neuroguidin an initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) binding protein.
Aldedh	Aldehyde dehydrogenase family. This family of dehydrogenases act on aldehyde substrates. Members use NADP as a cofactor. The family includes the following members: The prototypical members are the aldehyde dehydrogenases EC:1.2.1.3. Succinate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase EC:1.2.1.16. Lactaldehyde dehydrogenase EC:1.2.1.22. Benzaldehyde dehydrogenase EC:1.2.1.28. Methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase EC:1.2.1.27. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase EC:1.2.1.9. Delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase EC: 1.5.1.12. Acetaldehyde dehydrogenase EC:1.2.1.10. Glutamate-5-semialdehyde dehydrogenase EC:1.2.1.41. This family also includes omega crystallin, an eye lens protein from squid and octopus that has little aldehyde dehydrogenase activity.
DUF1565	Protein of unknown function (DUF1565). These proteins share a region of homology in their N termini, and are found in several phylogenetically diverse bacteria and in the archaeon Methanosarcina acetivorans. Some of these proteins also contain characterised domains such as pfam00395 and pfam03422.
DUF1231	Protein of unknown function (DUF1231). This family consists of several Orthopoxvirus specific proteins predominantly of around 340 residues in length. This family contains both B17 and B15 proteins, the function of which are unknown.
2-oxoacid_dh	2-oxoacid dehydrogenases acyltransferase (catalytic domain). These proteins contain one to three copies of a lipoyl binding domain followed by the catalytic domain.
UBA	UBA/TS-N domain. This small domain is composed of three alpha helices. This family includes the previously defined UBA and TS-N domains. The UBA-domain (ubiquitin associated domain) is a novel sequence motif found in several proteins having connections to ubiquitin and the ubiquitination pathway. The structure of the UBA domain consists of a compact three helix bundle. This domain is found at the N terminus of EF-TS hence the name TS-N. The structure of EF-TS is known and this domain is implicated in its interaction with EF-TU. The domain has been found in non EF-TS proteins such as alpha-NAC and MJ0280.
F-box	F-box domain. This domain is approximately 50 amino acids long, and is usually found in the N-terminal half of a variety of proteins. Two motifs that are commonly found associated with the F-box domain are the leucine rich repeats (LRRs; pfam00560 and pfam07723) and the WD repeat (pfam00400). The F-box domain has a role in mediating protein-protein interactions in a variety of contexts, such as polyubiquitination, transcription elongation, centromere binding and translational repression.
CRISPR_Cse2	CRISPR-associated protein Cse2 (CRISPR_cse2). Clusters of short DNA repeats with non-homologous spacers, which are found at regular intervals in the genomes of phylogenetically distinct prokaryotic species, comprise a family with recognisable features. This family is known as CRISPR (short for Clustered, Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats). A number of protein families appear only in association with these repeats and are designated Cas (CRISPR-Associated) proteins. This family of proteins, represented by CT1973 from Chlorobaculum tepidum, is encoded by genes found in the CRISPR/Cas subtype Ecoli regions of many bacteria (most of which are mesophiles), and not in Archaea. It is designated Cse2.
DUF303	Domain of unknown function (DUF303). Distribution of this domain seems limited to prokaryotes and viruses.
Adeno_E4_34	Adenovirus early E4 34 kDa protein conserved region. Conserved region found in the Adenovirus E4 34 kDa protein.
Trypsin	Trypsin. 
Noc2	Noc2p family. At least one member, Noc2p from yeast, is required for a late step in 60S subunit export from the nucleus. It has also been shown to co-precipitate with Nug1p, a nuclear GTPase also required for ribosome nucleus export. This family was formerly known as UPF0120.
SlyX	SlyX. The SlyX protein has no known function. It is short less than 80 amino acids and is found close to the slyD gene. The SlyX protein has a conserved PPH(Y/W) motif at its C-terminus. The protein may be a coiled-coil structure.
Cytochrom_B559a	Lumenal portion of Cytochrome b559, alpha (gene psbE) subunit. This family is the lumenal portion of cytochrome b559 alpha chain, matches to this family should be accompanied by a match to the pfam00283 family also. The Prosite pattern pattern matches the transmembrane region of the cytochrome b559 alpha and beta subunits.
Calreticulin	Calreticulin family. 
PMM	Eukaryotic phosphomannomutase. This enzyme EC:5.4.2.8 is involved in the synthesis of the GDP-mannose and dolichol-phosphate-mannose required for a number of critical mannosyl transfer reactions.
MAP65_ASE1	Microtubule associated protein (MAP65/ASE1 family). 
7TM_GPCR_Srx	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srx. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srx is part of the Srg superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
DUF11	Domain of unknown function DUF11. A domain of unknown function found in multiple copies in several archaebacterial proteins.
EnY2	Transcription factor e(y)2. EnY2 is a small transcription factor which is combined in a complex with the TAFII40 protein. The protein is conserved from paramecium to humans.
Homeobox	Homeobox domain. 
HA2	Helicase associated domain (HA2). This presumed domain is about 90 amino acid residues in length. It is found is a diverse set of RNA helicases. Its function is unknown, however it seems likely to be involved in nucleic acid binding.
BSP_II	Bone sialoprotein II (BSP-II). Bone sialoprotein (BSP) is a major structural protein of the bone matrix that is specifically expressed by fully-differentiated osteoblasts. The expression of bone sialoprotein (BSP) is normally restricted to mineralised connective tissues of bones and teeth where it has been associated with mineral crystal formation. However, it has been found that ectopic expression of BSP occurs in various lesions, including oral and extraoral carcinomas, in which it has been associated with the formation of microcrystalline deposits and the metastasis of cancer cells to bone.
Oxidored_q5_N	NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase chain 4, amino terminus. 
MraZ	MraZ protein. This small 70 amino acid domain is found duplicated in a family of bacterial proteins. These proteins may be DNA-binding transcription factors (Pers. comm. A Andreeva & A Murzin).
CLP_protease	Clp protease. The Clp protease has an active site catalytic triad. In Escherichia coli Clp protease, ser-111, his-136 and asp-185 form the catalytic triad. A putative Clp protease from Cyanophora paradoxa has lost all of these active site residues and is therefore inactive. A member from Chlamydomonas eugametos contains two large insertions, a member from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii contains one large insertion.
FIST_C	FIST C domain. The FIST C domain is a novel sensory domain, which is present in signal transduction proteins from Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya. Chromosomal proximity of FIST-encoding genes to those coding for proteins involved in amino acid metabolism and transport suggest that FIST domains bind small ligands, such as amino acids.
Glyco_hydro_32N	Glycosyl hydrolases family 32 N terminal. This domain corresponds to the N terminal domain of glycosyl transferase family 32 which forms a five bladed beta propeller structure.
OPA3	Optic atrophy 3 protein (OPA3). This family consists of several optic atrophy 3 (OPA3) proteins. OPA3 deficiency causes type III 3-methylglutaconic aciduria (MGA) in humans. This disease manifests with early bilateral optic atrophy, spasticity, extrapyramidal dysfunction, ataxia, and cognitive deficits, but normal longevity.
HSF_DNA-bind	HSF-type DNA-binding. 
Ribosomal_L13e	Ribosomal protein L13e. 
DUF490	Family of unknown function (DUF490). 
Cons_hypoth95	Conserved hypothetical protein 95. 
Ribosomal_S17e	Ribosomal S17. 
CCG	Cysteine-rich domain. This domain is usually found in two copies per protein. It contains up to four conserved cysteines. The family includes a subunit from heterodisulphide reductase and a subunit from glycolate oxidase and glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase.
Acyl_transf_3	Acyltransferase family. This family includes a range of acyltransferase enzymes. This domain is found in many as yet uncharacterised Caenorhabditis elegans proteins and it is approximately 300 amino acids long.
NRIF3	Nuclear receptor co-activator NRIF3. This family consists of mammalian nuclear receptor co-activator NRIF3 proteins. NRIF3 exhibits a distinct receptor specificity in interacting with and potentiating the activity of only TRs and RXRs but not other examined nuclear receptors. NRIF3 as a coregulator that possesses both transactivation and transrepression domains and/or functions. Collectively, the NRIF3 family of coregulators may play dual roles in mediating both positive and negative regulatory effects on gene expression.
RNA_pol_I_A49	A49-like RNA polymerase I associated factor. Saccharomyces cerevisiae A49 is a specific subunit associated with RNA polymerase I (Pol I) in eukaryotes. Pol I maintains transcription activities in A49 deletion mutants. However, such mutants are deficient in transcription activity at low temperatures. Deletion analysis of the fusion yeast homolog indicate that only the C-terminal two thirds are required for function. Transcript analysis has demonstrated that A49 is maximising transcription of ribosomal DNA.
Cons_hypoth698	Conserved hypothetical protein 698. 
DZC	Disease resistance/zinc finger/chromosome condensation-like region. This family features a short region, approximately 35 residues in length, which is found near the C-terminus in a number of plant proteins; it is repeated up to three times in some members. These proteins are annotated as being involved in disease resistance and in the regulation of chromosome condensation, and contain domains with varied functions, such as TIR (pfam01582), PH (Smart:SM00233), and FYVE (pfam01363).
Nup153	Nucleoporin Nup153-like. This family contains both the nucleoporin Nup153 from human and Nup153 from fission yeast. These have been demonstrated to be functionally equivalent.
IncA	IncA protein. Chlamydia trachomatis is an obligate intracellular bacterium that develops within a parasitophorous vacuole termed an inclusion. The inclusion is nonfusogenic with lysosomes but intercepts lipids from a host cell exocytic pathway. Initiation of chlamydial development is concurrent with modification of the inclusion membrane by a set of C. trachomatis-encoded proteins collectively designated Incs. One of these Incs, IncA, is functionally associated with the homotypic fusion of inclusions. This family probably includes members of the wider Inc family rather than just IncA.
Ribosomal_L14e	Ribosomal protein L14. This family includes the eukaryotic ribosomal protein L14.
ABM	Antibiotic biosynthesis monooxygenase. This domain is found in monooxygenases involved in the biosynthesis of several antibiotics by Streptomyces species. It's occurrence as a repeat in Streptomyces coelicolor SCO1909 is suggestive that the other proteins function as multimers. There is also a conserved histidine which is likely to be an active site residue.
SMC_Nse1	Nse1 non-SMC component of SMC5-6 complex. Saccharomyces cerevisiae Nse1 forms part of a complex with SMC5-SMC6 This non-structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) complex plays an essential role in genomic stability, being involved in DNA repair and DNA metabolism. It is conserved in eukaryotes from yeast to human.
Sulfotransfer_2	Sulfotransferase. Chondroitin 6-sulfotransferase catalyses the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of the N-acetylgalactosamine residue of chondroitin.
DUF1232	Protein of unknown function (DUF1232). This family represents a conserved region of approximately 60 residues within a number of hypothetical bacterial and archaeal proteins of unknown function.
Adenylsucc_synt	Adenylosuccinate synthetase. 
X8	X8 domain. The X8 domain domain contains 6 conserved cysteine residues that presumably form three disulphide bridges. The domain is found in an Olive pollen allergen as well as at the C-terminus of family 17 glycosyl hydrolases. This domain may be involved in carbohydrate binding.
ASL_C	Adenylosuccinate lyase C-terminal. This domain is found at the C-terminus of adenylosuccinate lyase(ASL; PurB in Escherichia coli). It has been identified in bacteria, eukaryotes and archaea and is found together with the lyase domain pfam00206. ASL catalyses the cleavage of succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide ribotide to aminoimidazole carboxamide ribotide and fumarate and the cleavage of adenylosuccinate to adenylate and fumarate.
L27_1	L27_1. The L27 domain is a protein interaction module that exists in a large family of scaffold proteins, functioning as an organisation centre of large protein assemblies required for the establishment and maintenance of cell polarity. L27 domains form specific heterotetrameric complexes, in which each domain contains three alpha-helices.
Atx10homo_assoc	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 10 protein domain. This is the conserved C-terminal 100 residues of Ataxin-10. Ataxin-10 belongs to the family of armadillo repeat proteins and in solution it tends to form homotrimeric complexes, which associate via a tip-to-tip association in a horseshoe-shaped contact with the concave sides of the molecules facing each other. This domain may represent the homo-association site since that is located near the C-terminus of Ataxin-10. The protein does not contain a signal sequence for secretion or any subcellular compartment confirming its cytoplasmic localisation, specifically to the olivocerebellar region.
DUF863	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF863). This family consists of a number of hypothetical proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The function of this family is unknown.
Lactococcin_972	Bacteriocin (Lactococcin_972). These sequences represent bacteriocins related to lactococcin. Members tend to be found in association with a seven transmembrane putative immunity protein.
RIC1	RIC1. RIC1 has been identified in yeast as a Golgi protein involved in retrograde transport to the cis-Golgi network. It forms a heterodimer with Rgp1 and functions as a guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor.
Sld5	Synthetic lethal mutants of dpb11-1 five. The GINS complex is essential for initiation of DNA replication in Xenopus egg extracts. This 100 kD stable complex includes Sld5, Psf1, Psf2, and Psf3. Homologues of these components are found also in yeasts and in humans.
WND	WisP family N-Terminal Region. This family is found at the N-terminus of the Tropheryma whipplei WisP family proteins.
CarD_TRCF	CarD-like/TRCF domain. CarD is a Myxococcus xanthus protein required for the activation of light- and starvation-inducible genes. This family includes the presumed N-terminal domain. CarD interacts with the zinc-binding protein CarG, to form a complex that regulates multiple processes in Myxococcus xanthus. This family also includes a domain to the N-terminal side of the DEAD helicase of TRCF proteins. TRCF displaces RNA polymerase stalled at a lesion, binds to the damage recognition protein UvrA, and increases the template strand repair rate during transcription. This domain is involved in binding to the stalled RNA polymerase.
DUF1204	Protein of unknown function (DUF1204). This family represents the C-terminus of a number of Arabidopsis thaliana hypothetical proteins of unknown function. Family members contain a conserved DFD motif.
Kinesin-related	Kinesin-related. This family represents a region within kinesin-related proteins from higher plants. Many family members also contain the pfam00225 domain. Kinesins are ATP-driven microtubule motor proteins that produce directed force. Some family members are associated with the phragmoplast, a structure composed mainly of microtubules that executes cytokinesis in higher plants.
Snf7	Snf7. This family of proteins are involved in protein sorting and transport from the endosome to the vacuole/lysosome in eukaryotic cells. Vacuoles/lysosomes play an important role in the degradation of both lipids and cellular proteins. In order to perform this degradative function, vacuoles/lysosomes contain numerous hydrolases which have been transported in the form of inactive precursors via the biosynthetic pathway and are proteolytically activated upon delivery to the vacuole/lysosome. The delivery of transmembrane proteins, such as activated cell surface receptors to the lumen of the vacuole/lysosome, either for degradation/downregulation, or in the case of hydrolases, for proper localisation, requires the formation of multivesicular bodies (MVBs). These late endosomal structures are formed by invaginating and budding of the limiting membrane into the lumen of the compartment. During this process, a subset of the endosomal membrane proteins is sorted into the forming vesicles. Mature MVBs fuse with the vacuole/lysosome, thereby releasing cargo containing vesicles into its hydrolytic lumen for degradation. Endosomal proteins that are not sorted into the intralumenal MVB vesicles are either recycled back to the plasma membrane or Golgi complex, or remain in the limiting membrane of the MVB and are thereby transported to the limiting membrane of the vacuole/lysosome as a consequence of fusion. Therefore, the MVB sorting pathway plays a critical role in the decision between recycling and degradation of membrane proteins. A few archaeal sequences are also present within this family.
Tmemb_32	Transmembrane protein precursor 32. This is family of proteins that is conserved from plants to humans and is referred to transmembrane protein precursor 32. Its function is unknown.
NAM	No apical meristem (NAM) protein. This is a family of no apical meristem (NAM) proteins these are plant development proteins. Mutations in NAM result in the failure to develop a shoot apical meristem in petunia embryos. NAM is indicated as having a role in determining positions of meristems and primordia. One member of this family NAP (NAC-like, activated by AP3/PI) is encoded by the target genes of the AP3/PI transcriptional activators and functions in the transition between growth by cell division and cell expansion in stamens and petals.
Wbp11	WW domain binding protein 11. The WW domain is a small protein modules with a triple-stranded beta-sheet fold. This is a family of WW domain binding proteins.
HIT	HIT domain. 
Epimerase	NAD dependent epimerase/dehydratase family. This family of proteins utilise NAD as a cofactor. The proteins in this family use nucleotide-sugar substrates for a variety of chemical reactions.
CDT1	DNA replication factor CDT1 like. CDT1 is a component of the replication licensing system and promotes the loading of the mini-chromosome maintenance complex onto chromatin. Geminin is an inhibitor of CDT1 and prevents inappropriate re-initiation of replication on an already fired origin. This region of CDT1 binds to Geminin.
GST_N	Glutathione S-transferase, N-terminal domain. Function: conjugation of reduced glutathione to a variety of targets. Also included in the alignment, but are not GSTs: * S-crystallins from squid. Similarity to GST previously noted. * Eukaryotic elongation factors 1-gamma. Not known to have GST activity; similarity not previously recognised. * HSP26 family of stress-related proteins. including auxin-regulated proteins in plants and stringent starvation proteins in Escherichia coli. Not known to have GST activity. Similarity not previously recognised. The glutathione molecule binds in a cleft between N and C-terminal domains - the catalytically important residues are proposed to reside in the N-terminal domain.
Peptidase_M17	Cytosol aminopeptidase family, catalytic domain. The two associated zinc ions and the active site are entirely enclosed within the C-terminal catalytic domain in leucine aminopeptidase.
Peptidase_S28	Serine carboxypeptidase S28. These serine proteases include several eukaryotic enzymes such as lysosomal Pro-X carboxypeptidase, dipeptidyl-peptidase II, and thymus-specific serine peptidase.
Med1-Trap220	Mediator of RNA polymerase II transcription subunit 1. Mediator complexes are basic necessities for linking transcriptional regulators to RNA polymerase II. This domain, Med1, is conserved from plants to fungi to humans and forms part of the Med9 submodule of the Srb/Med complex. it is one of three subunits essential for viability of the whole organism via its role in environmentally-directed cell-fate decisions.
zf-C3H1	Putative zinc-finger domain. This domain is conserved in fungi and might be a zinc-finger domain as it contains three conserved Cs and an H in the C-x8-C-x5-C-x3-H conformation typical of a zinc-finger.
L51_S25_CI-B8	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L51 / S25 / CI-B8 domain. The proteins in this family are located in the mitochondrion. The family includes ribosomal protein L51, and S25. This family also includes mitochondrial NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase B8 subunit (CI-B8) EC:1.6.5.3. It is not known whether all members of this family form part of the NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase and whether they are also all ribosomal proteins.
Fusion_gly_K	Cell fusion glycoprotein K. This protein is probably an integral membrane bound glycoprotein that is involved in viral fusion with the host cell.
ArsC	ArsC family. This family is related to glutaredoxins pfam00462.
Yippee	Yippee putative zinc-binding protein. 
SNARE	SNARE domain. Most if not all vesicular membrane fusion events in eukaryotic cells are believed to be mediated by a conserved fusion machinery, the SNARE [soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) attachment protein (SNAP) receptors] machinery. The SNARE domain is thought to act as a protein-protein interaction module in the assembly of a SNARE protein complex.
DUF2239	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2239). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
HCCA3	Primary hepatocellular carcinoma protein HCCA3. This family of proteins is conserved from plants to humans. It is putatively determined to be of 264 amino acids in length. HCCA3 is overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and is associated with the invasion of tumour capsules and the adjacent small satellite nodule lesions. However, its exact function is unknown.
DUF2266	Predicted integral membrane protein (DUF2266). Members of this family of bacterial hypothetical membrane proteins have no known function.
Pyr_redox	Pyridine nucleotide-disulphide oxidoreductase. This family includes both class I and class II oxidoreductases and also NADH oxidases and peroxidases. This domain is actually a small NADH binding domain within a larger FAD binding domain.
CH	Calponin homology (CH) domain. The CH domain is found in both cytoskeletal proteins and signal transduction proteins. The CH domain is involved in actin binding in some members of the family. However in calponins there is evidence that the CH domain is not involved in its actin binding activity. Most proteins have two copies of the CH domain, however some proteins such as calponin have only a single copy.
UPF0261	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0261). 
Radical_SAM	Radical SAM superfamily. Radical SAM proteins catalyse diverse reactions, including unusual methylations, isomerisation, sulphur insertion, ring formation, anaerobic oxidation and protein radical formation.
ARD	ARD/ARD' family. The two acireductone dioxygenase enzymes (ARD and ARD', previously known as E-2 and E-2') from Klebsiella pneumoniae share the same amino acid sequence, but bind different metal ions: ARD binds Ni2+, ARD' binds Fe2+. ARD and ARD' can be experimentally interconverted by removal of the bound metal ion and reconstitution with the appropriate metal ion. The two enzymes share the same substrate, 1,2-dihydroxy-3-keto-5-(methylthio)pentene, but yield different products. ARD' yields the alpha-keto precursor of methionine (and formate), thus forming part of the ubiquitous methionine salvage pathway that converts 5'-methylthioadenosine (MTA) to methionine. This pathway is responsible for the tight control of the concentration of MTA, which is a powerful inhibitor of polyamine biosynthesis and transmethylation reactions. ARD yields methylthiopropanoate, carbon monoxide and formate, and thus prevents the conversion of MTA to methionine. The role of the ARD catalysed reaction is unclear: methylthiopropanoate is cytotoxic, and carbon monoxide can activate guanylyl cyclase, leading to increased intracellular cGMP levels. This family also contains other members, whose functions are not well characterised.
Ribonuc_red_lgC	Ribonucleotide reductase, barrel domain. 
MurB_C	UDP-N-acetylenolpyruvoylglucosamine reductase, C-terminal domain. Members of this family are UDP-N-acetylenolpyruvoylglucosamine reductase enzymes EC:1.1.1.158. This enzyme is involved in the biosynthesis of peptidoglycan.
CRISPR_Cse1	CRISPR-associated protein Cse1 (CRISPR_cse1). Clusters of short DNA repeats with non-homologous spacers, which are found at regular intervals in the genomes of phylogenetically distinct prokaryotic species, comprise a family with recognisable features. This family is known as CRISPR (short for Clustered, Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats). A number of protein families appear only in association with these repeats and are designated Cas (CRISPR-Associated) proteins. This entry, represented by CT1972 from Chlorobaculum tepidum, is found in the CRISPR/Cas subtype Ecoli regions of many bacteria (most of which are mesophiles), and not in Archaea. It is designated Cse1.
SF-assemblin	SF-assemblin/beta giardin. This family consists of several eukaryotic SF-assemblin and related beta giardin proteins. During mitosis the SF-assemblin-based cytoskeleton is reorganised; it divides in prophase and is reduced to two dot-like structures at each spindle pole in metaphase. During anaphase, the two dots present at each pole are connected again. In telophase there is an asymmetrical outgrowth of new fibres. It has been suggested that SF-assemblin is involved in re-establishing the microtubular root system characteristic of interphase cells after mitosis.
Shikimate_DH	Shikimate / quinate 5-dehydrogenase. This family contains both shikimate and quinate dehydrogenases. Shikimate 5-dehydrogenase catalyses the conversion of shikimate to 5-dehydroshikimate. This reaction is part of the shikimate pathway which is involved in the biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids. Quinate 5-dehydrogenase catalyses the conversion of quinate to 5-dehydroquinate. This reaction is part of the quinate pathway where quinic acid is exploited as a source of carbon in prokaryotes and microbial eukaryotes. Both the shikimate and quinate pathways share two common pathway metabolites 3-dehydroquinate and dehydroshikimate.
Cobl	Cordon-bleu domain. The Cordon-bleu protein domain is highly conserved among vertebrates. The sequence contains three repeated lysine, arginine, and proline-rich regions, the KKRAP motif. The exact function of the protein is unknown but it is thought to be involved in mid-brain neural tube closure. It is expressed specifically in the node.
DUF407	Domain of unknown function (DUF407). 
Nse5	DNA repair protein Nse5. Nse5 is a non essential nuclear protein that is critical for chromosome segregation in fission yeast. Nse5 forms a dimer with Nse6 and facilitates DNA repair as part of the Smc5-Smc6 holocomplex.
DUF1680	Putative glycosyl hydrolase of unknown function (DUF1680). The members of this family are sequences derived from hypothetical bacterial and eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. One members of this family is annotated as a possible arabinosidase, but no references were found to back this. These proteins are related to a large family of glycosyl hydrolases.
AAA	ATPase family associated with various cellular activities (AAA). AAA family proteins often perform chaperone-like functions that assist in the assembly, operation, or disassembly of protein complexes.
BURP	BURP domain. The BURP domain is found at the C-terminus of several different plant proteins. It was named after the proteins in which it was first identified: the BNM2 clone-derived protein from Brassica napus; USPs and USP-like proteins; RD22 from Arabidopsis thaliana; and PG1beta from Lycopersicon esculentum. This domain is around 230 amino acid residues long. It possesses the following conserved features: two phenylalanine residues at its N-terminus; two cysteine residues; and four repeated cysteine-histidine motifs, arranged as: CH-X(10)-CH-X(25-27)-CH-X(25-26)-CH, where X can be any amino acid. The function of this domain is unknown.
tRNA_lig_kinase	tRNA ligase kinase domain. This domain is found in fungal tRNA ligases and has kinase activity. tRNA ligases are enzymes required for the splicing of precursor tRNA molecules containing introns.
Alum_res	Aluminium resistance protein. This family represents the aluminium resistance protein, which confers resistance to aluminium in bacteria.
Anticodon_1	Anticodon-binding domain. This domain is found valyl and leucyl tRNA synthetases. It binds to the anticodon of the tRNA.
Glyco_hydro_85	Glycosyl hydrolase family 85. Family of endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidases. These enzymes work on a broad spectrum of substrates.
APH_6_hur	Aminoglycoside/hydroxyurea antibiotic resistance kinase. The aminoglycoside phosphotransferases achieve inactivation of their antibiotic substrates by phosphorylation utilising ATP. Likewise hydroxyurea is inactivated by phosphorylation of the hydroxy group in the hydroxylamine moiety.
Med18	Med18 protein. Med18 is one subunit of Mediator, a head-module multiprotein complex, that stimulates basal RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription. Med18 consists of an eight-stranded beta-barrel with a central pore and three flanking helices. It complexes with Med8 and Med20 proteins by forming a heterodimer of two-fold symmetry with Med20 and binding the C-terminal alpha-helix region of Med8 across the top of its barrel. This complex creates a multipartite TBP-binding site that can be modulated by transcriptional activators.
VHL	von Hippel-Lindau disease tumour suppressor protein. VHL forms a ternary complex with the elonginB and elonginC proteins. This complex binds Cul2, which then is involved in regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA.
ATX_III	Anemonia sulcata toxin III family. This family consists of the Anemonia sulcata toxin III (ATX III) neurotoxin family. ATX III is a neurotoxin that is produced by sea anemone; it adopts a compact structure containing four reverse turns and two other chain reversals, but no regular alpha-helix or beta-sheet. A hydrophobic patch found on the surface of the peptide may constitute part of the sodium channel binding surface.
SapB_2	Saposin-like type B, region 2. 
TFIID_20kDa	Transcription initiation factor TFIID subunit A. 
ETF_alpha	Electron transfer flavoprotein FAD-binding domain. This domain found at the C-terminus of electron transfer flavoprotein alpha chain and binds to FAD. The fold consists of a five-stranded parallel beta sheet as the core of the domain, flanked by alternating helices. A small part of this domain is donated by the beta chain.
Ribosomal_L17	Ribosomal protein L17. 
NUC173	NUC173 domain. This is the central domain of of novel family of hypothetical nucleolar proteins.
Hc1	Histone H1-like protein Hc1. This family consists of several bacterial histone H1-like Hc1 proteins which appear to be specific to Chlamydia species. Chlamydiae are prokaryotic obligate intracellular parasites that undergo a biphasic life cycle involving an infectious, extracellular form known as elementary bodies and an intracellular, replicating form termed reticulate bodies. The gene coding for Hc1 is expressed only during the late stages of the chlamydial life cycle concomitant with the reorganisation of chlamydial reticulate bodies into elementary bodies, suggesting that the Hc1 protein plays a role in the condensation of chlamydial chromatin during intracellular differentiation.
MatE	MatE. The MatE domain
TRAP_240kDa	TRAP240. Members of this family have been shown to be involved in transcriptional repression via the Mediator complex.
APH	Phosphotransferase enzyme family. This family consists of bacterial antibiotic resistance proteins, which confer resistance to various aminoglycosides they include:- aminoglycoside 3'-phosphotransferase or kanamycin kinase / neomycin-kanamycin phosphotransferase and streptomycin 3''-kinase or streptomycin 3''-phosphotransferase. The aminoglycoside phosphotransferases inactivate aminoglycoside antibiotics via phosphorylation. This family also includes homoserine kinase. This family is related to fructosamine kinase pfam03881.
Defensin_beta	Beta defensin. The beta defensins are antimicrobial peptides implicated in the resistance of epithelial surfaces to microbial colonisation.
SKN1	Beta-glucan synthesis-associated protein (SKN1). This family consists of the beta-glucan synthesis-associated proteins KRE6 and SKN1. Beta1,6-Glucan is a key component of the yeast cell wall, interconnecting cell wall proteins, beta1,3-glucan, and chitin. It has been postulated that the synthesis of beta1,6-glucan begins in the endoplasmic reticulum with the formation of protein-bound primer structures and that these primer structures are extended in the Golgi complex by two putative glucosyltransferases that are functionally redundant, Kre6 and Skn1. This is followed by maturation steps at the cell surface and by coupling to other cell wall macromolecules.
Glycoprotein_G	Pneumovirus attachment glycoprotein G. This family includes attachment proteins from respiratory synctial virus. Glycoprotein G has not been shown to have any neuraminidase or hemagglutinin activity (Swiss-Prot). The amino terminus is thought to be cytoplasmic, and the carboxyl terminus extracellular. The extracellular region contains four completely conserved cysteine residues.
Cas_TM1802	CRISPR-associated protein TM1802 (cas_TM1802). Clusters of short DNA repeats with non-homologous spacers, which are found at regular intervals in the genomes of phylogenetically distinct prokaryotic species, comprise a family with recognisable features. This family is known as CRISPR (short for Clustered, Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats). A number of protein families appear only in association with these repeats and are designated Cas (CRISPR-Associated) proteins. This minor cas protein is found in at least five prokaryotic genomes: Methanosarcina mazei, Sulfurihydrogenibium azorense, Thermotoga maritima, Carboxydothermus hydrogenoformans, and Dictyoglomus thermophilum, the first of which is archaeal while the rest are bacterial.
Patched	Patched family. The transmembrane protein Patched is a receptor for the morphogene Sonic Hedgehog. This protein associates with the smoothened protein to transduce hedgehog signals.
TruD	tRNA pseudouridine synthase D (TruD). TruD is responsible for synthesis of pseudouridine from uracil-13 in transfer RNAs. The structure of TruD reveals an overall V-shaped molecule which contains an RNA-binding cleft.
DNA_pol_E_B	DNA polymerase alpha/epsilon subunit B. This family contains a number of DNA polymerase subunits. The B subunit of the DNA polymerase alpha plays an essential role at the initial stage of DNA replication in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and is phosphorylated in a cell cycle-dependent manner. DNA polymerase epsilon is essential for cell viability and chromosomal DNA replication in budding yeast. In addition, DNA polymerase epsilon may be involved in DNA repair and cell-cycle checkpoint control. The enzyme consists of at least four subunits in mammalian cells as well as in yeast. The largest subunit of DNA polymerase epsilon is responsible for polymerase epsilon is responsible for polymerase activity. In mouse, the DNA polymerase epsilon subunit B is the second largest subunit of the DNA polymerase. A part of the N-terminal was found to be responsible for the interaction with SAP18. Experimental evidence suggests that this subunit may recruit histone deacetylase to the replication fork to modify the chromatin structure.
Endostatin	Collagenase NC10 and Endostatin. NC10 stands for Non-helical region 10 and is taken from human collagen alpha-1(XV). A mutation in this region in human collagen alpha-1(XVIII) is associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. This domain is cleaved from the precursor and forms endostatin. Endostatin is a key tumour suppressor and has been used highly successfully to treat cancer. It is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor. Endostatin also binds a zinc ion near the N-terminus; this is likely to be of structural rather than functional importance according to.
DAD	DAD family. Members of this family are thought to be integral membrane proteins. Some members of this family have been shown to cause apoptosis if mutated, these proteins are known as DAD for defender against death. The family also includes the epsilon subunit of the oligosaccharyltransferase that is involved in N-linked glycosylation.
Ank	Ankyrin repeat. There's no clear separation between noise and signal on the HMM search Ankyrin repeats generally consist of a beta, alpha, alpha, beta order of secondary structures. The repeats associate to form a higher order structure.
Haemagg_act	haemagglutination activity domain. This domain is suggested to be a carbohydrate- dependent haemagglutination activity site. It is found in a range of haemagglutinins and haemolysins.
PEMT	Phospholipid methyltransferase. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae phospholipid methyltransferase (EC:2.1.1.16) has a broad substrate specificity of unsaturated phospholipids.
SUI1	Translation initiation factor SUI1. 
DUF1731	Domain of unknown function (DUF1731). This domain of unknown function appears towards the C-terminus of proteins of the NAD dependent epimerase/dehydratase family (pfam01370) in bacteria, eukaryotes and archaea. Many of the proteins in which it is found are involved in cell-division inhibition.
Ycf1	Ycf1. The chloroplast genomes of most higher plants contain two giant open reading frames designated ycf1 and ycf2. Although the function of Ycf1 is unknown, it is known to be an essential gene.
DUF1004	GAGA binding protein-like family. This family includes gbp a protein from Soybean that binds to GAGA element dinucleotide repeat DNA. It seems likely that the this domain mediates DNA binding. This putative domain contains several conserved cysteines and a histidine suggesting this may be a zinc-binding DNA interaction domain.
Na_Ala_symp	Sodium:alanine symporter family. 
Presenilin	Presenilin. Mutations in presenilin-1 are a major cause of early onset Alzheimer's disease. It has been found that presenilin-1 binds to beta-catenin in-vivo. This family also contains SPE proteins from C.elegans.
AWPM-19	AWPM-19-like family. Members of this family are 19 kDa membrane proteins. The levels of the plant protein AWPM-19 increase dramatically when there is an increase level of abscisic acid. The increase presence of this protein leads to greater tolerance of freezing.
DUF1350	Protein of unknown function (DUF1350). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins from both cyanobacteria and plants. Members of this family are typically around 250 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown but the species distribution indicates that the family may be involved in photosynthesis.
Trs120	Transport protein Trs120. This region is found at the N terminal of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Trs120 protein. Trs120 is a subunit of the multiprotein complex TRAPP (transport particle protein) which functions in ER to Golgi traffic.
NifU_N	NifU-like N terminal domain. This domain is found in NifU in combination with pfam01106. This domain is found on isolated in several bacterial species. The nif genes are responsible for nitrogen fixation. However this domain is found in bacteria that do not fix nitrogen, so it may have a broader significance in the cell than nitrogen fixation. These proteins appear to be scaffold proteins for iron-sulfur clusters.
TP_methylase	Tetrapyrrole (Corrin/Porphyrin) Methylases. This family uses S-AdoMet in the methylation of diverse substrates. This family includes a related group of bacterial proteins of unknown function. This family includes the methylase Dipthine synthase.
NOI	Cleavage site for pathogenic type III effector avirulence factor Avr. This domain is conserved in small families of otherwise unrelated proteins in both mono-cots and di-cots, suggesting that it has a conserved, plant-specific function. It is found both in the plant RIN4 (resistance R membrane-bound host-target protein) where it appears to contribute to the binding of the protein to both RCS (AvrRpt2 auto-cleavage site) and AvrB, the virulence factor from the infecting bacterium as well as in NOI proteins which are produced under conditions of hypoxic stress. The cleavage site for the AvrRpt2 avirulence protein would appear to be the sequence motifs VPQFGDW and LPKFGEW, both of which are highly conserved within the domain.
C1_1	Phorbol esters/diacylglycerol binding domain (C1 domain). This domain is also known as the Protein kinase C conserved region 1 (C1) domain.
Macoilin	Transmembrane protein. This entry is a highly conserved protein present in eukaryotes.
DUF543	Domain of unknown function (DUF543). This family of short eukaryotic proteins has no known function. Most of the members of this family are only 80 amino acid residues long. However the Arabidopsis homologue is over 300 residues long. The presumed domain contains a conserved amino terminal cysteine and a conserved motif GXGXGXG in the carboxy terminal half that may be functionally important.
Transferase	Transferase family. This family includes a number of transferase enzymes. These include anthranilate N-hydroxycinnamoyl/benzoyltransferase that catalyses the first committed reaction of phytoalexin biosynthesis. Deacetylvindoline 4-O-acetyltransferase EC:2.3.1.107 catalyses the last step in vindoline biosynthesis is also a member of this family. The motif HXXXD is probably part of the active site. The family also includes trichothecene 3-O-acetyltransferase.
RCC1	Regulator of chromosome condensation (RCC1). 
MtrE	Tetrahydromethanopterin S-methyltransferase, subunit E. The N5-methyltetrahydromethanopterin: coenzyme M (EC:2.1.1.86) of Methanosarcina mazei Go1 is a membrane-associated, corrinoid-containing protein that uses a transmethylation reaction to drive an energy-conserving sodium ion pump.
DUF2043	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2043). This is a 100 residue conserved region of a family of proteins found from fungi to humans. This region contains three conserved Cysteines and a motif of {CP}{y/l}{HG}.
CGI-121	Kinase binding protein CGI-121. CGI-121 has been shown to bind to the p53-related protein kinase (PRPK). PRPK is a novel protein kinase which binds to and induces phosphorylation of the tumour suppressor protein p53. CGI-121 is part of a conserved protein complex, KEOPS. The KEOPS complex is involved in telomere uncapping and telomere elongation.
NADH_4Fe-4S	NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase-F iron-sulfur binding region. 
Aconitase	Aconitase family (aconitate hydratase). 
PalH	PalH/RIM21. PalH (also known as RIM21) is a transmembrane protein required for proteolytic cleavage of Rim101/PacC transcription factors which are activated by C terminal proteolytic processing. Rim101/PacC family proteins play a key role in pH-dependent responses and PalH has been implicated as a pH sensor.
Nicastrin	Nicastrin. Nicastrin and presenilin are two major components of the gamma-secretase complex, which executes the intramembrane proteolysis of type I integral membrane proteins such as the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and Notch. Nicastrin is synthesised in fibroblasts and neurons as an endoglycosidase-H-sensitive glycosylated precursor protein (immature nicastrin) and is then modified by complex glycosylation in the Golgi apparatus and by sialylation in the trans-Golgi network (mature nicastrin). A region featured in this family has a fold similar to human transferrin receptor (TfR) and a bacterial aminopeptidase. It is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Sugar-bind	Putative sugar-binding domain. This probable domain is found in bacterial transcriptional regulators such as DeoR and SorC. These proteins have an amino-terminal helix-turn-helix pfam00325 that binds to DNA. This domain is probably the ligand regulator binding region. SorC is regulated by sorbose and other members of this family are likely to be regulated by other sugar substrates.
ABG_transport	AbgT putative transporter family. 
EXS	EXS family. We have named this region the EXS family after (ERD1, XPR1, and SYG1). This family includes C-terminus portions from the SYG1 G-protein associated signal transduction protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and sequences that are thought to be murine leukaemia virus (MLV) receptors (XPR1). N-terminus portions from these proteins are aligned in the SPX pfam03105 family. The previously noted similarity between SYG1 and MLV receptors over their whole sequences is thus borne out in pfam03105 and this family. While the N-termini aligned in pfam03105 are thought to be involved in signal transduction, the role of the C-terminus sequences aligned in this family is not known. This region of similarity contains several predicted transmembrane helices. This family also includes the ERD1 (ERD: ER retention defective) yeast proteins. ERD1 proteins are involved in the localisation of endogenous endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins. erd1 null mutants secrete such proteins even though they possess the C-terminal HDEL ER lumen localisation label sequence. In addition, null mutants also exhibit defects in the Golgi-dependent processing of several glycoproteins, which led to the suggestion that the sorting of luminal ER proteins actually occurs in the Golgi, with subsequent return of these proteins to the ER via `salvage' vesicles.
Oxidored_q1_C	NADH-Ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), chain 5 C-terminus. This sub-family represents a carboxyl terminal extension of pfam00361. Only NADH-Ubiquinone chain 5 from chloroplasts are in this family. This sub-family is part of complex I which catalyses the transfer of two electrons from NADH to ubiquinone in a reaction that is associated with proton translocation across the membrane.
DUF2052	Coiled-coil domain containing protein (DUF2052). This entry is of sequences of two conserved domains separated by a region of low complexity, spanning some 200 residues. The function is unknown.
FGGY_C	FGGY family of carbohydrate kinases, C-terminal domain. This domain adopts a ribonuclease H-like fold and is structurally related to the N-terminal domain.
Scramblase	Scramblase. Scramblase is palmitoylated and contains a potential protein kinase C phosphorylation site. Scramblase exhibits Ca2+-activated phospholipid scrambling activity in vitro. There are also possible SH3 and WW binding motifs. Scramblase is involved in the redistribution of phospholipids after cell activation or injury.
B_lectin	D-mannose binding lectin. These proteins include mannose-specific lectins from plants as well as bacteriocins from bacteria.
Bowman-Birk_leg	Bowman-Birk serine protease inhibitor family. 
Osteopontin	Osteopontin. 
RecX	RecX family. RecX is a putative bacterial regulatory protein. The gene encoding RecX is found downstream of recA, and is thought to interact with the RecA protein.
Ala_racemase_N	Alanine racemase, N-terminal domain. 
MSP	Manganese-stabilising protein / photosystem II polypeptide. This family consists of the 33 KDa photosystem II polypeptide from the oxygen evolving complex (OEC) of plants and cyanobacteria. The protein is also known as the manganese-stabilising protein as it is associated with the manganese complex of the OEC and may provide the ligands for the complex.
ILVD_EDD	Dehydratase family. 
MOZ_SAS	MOZ/SAS family. This region of these proteins has been suggested to be homologous to acetyltransferases.
Borrelia_lipo_1	Borrelia burgdorferi virulent strain associated lipoprotein. This family consists of several virulent strain associated lipoproteins from the Lyme disease spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi.
SelT	Selenoprotein T. This entry is an approximately 100 residue region of selenoprotein-T, conserved from plants to humans. The protein binds to UDP-glucose:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase (UGTR), the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident protein, which is known to be involved in the quality control of protein folding. Selenium (Se) plays an essential role in cell survival and most of the effects of Se are probably mediated by selenoproteins, including selenoprotein T. However, despite its binding to UGTR and that its mRNA is up-regulated in extended asphyxia, the function of the protein and hence of this region of it is unknown.
Prp31_C	Prp31 C terminal domain. This is the C terminal domain of the pre-mRNA processing factor Prp31. Prp31 is required for U4/U6.U5 tri-snRNP formation. In humans this protein has been linked to autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa.
VirC2	VirC2 protein. This family consists of several VirC2 proteins which seem to be found exclusively in Agrobacterium species and Rhizobium etli. VirC2 is known to be involved in virulence in Agrobacterium species but its exact function is unclear.
Septin	Septin. Members of this family include CDC3, CDC10, CDC11 and CDC12/Septin. Members of this family bind GTP. As regards the septins, these are polypeptides of 30-65kDa with three characteristic GTPase motifs (G-1, G-3 and G-4) that are similar to those of the Ras family. The G-4 motif is strictly conserved with a unique septin consensus of AKAD. Most septins are thought to have at least one coiled-coil region, which in some cases is necessary for intermolecular interactions that allow septins to polymerise to form rod-shaped complexes. In turn, these are arranged into tandem arrays to form filaments. They are multifunctional proteins, with roles in cytokinesis, sporulation, germ cell development, exocytosis and apoptosis.
Ctr	Ctr copper transporter family. The redox active metal copper is an essential cofactor in critical biological processes such as respiration, iron transport, oxidative stress protection, hormone production, and pigmentation. A widely conserved family of high-affinity copper transport proteins (Ctr proteins) mediates copper uptake at the plasma membrane. A series of clustered methionine residues in the hydrophilic extracellular domain, and an MXXXM motif in the second transmembrane domain, are important for copper uptake. These methionine probably coordinate copper during the process of metal transport.
Chromo	'chromo' (CHRromatin Organisation MOdifier) domain. 
Ndc1_Nup	Nucleoporin protein Ndc1-Nup. Ndc1 is a nucleoporin protein that is a component of the Nuclear Pore Complex, and, in fungi, also of the Spindle Pole Body. It consists of six transmembrane segments, three luminal loops, both concentrated at the N-terminus and cytoplasmic domains largely at the C-terminus, all of which are well conserved.
UDPGP	UTP-glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase. This family consists of UTP-glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferases, EC:2.7.7.9. Also known as UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (UDPGP) and Glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase. UTP-glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase catalyses the interconversion of MgUTP + glucose-1-phosphate and UDP-glucose + MgPPi. UDP-glucose is an important intermediate in mammalian carbohydrate interconversion involved in various metabolic roles depending on tissue type. In Dictyostelium (slime mold) mutants in this enzyme abort the development cycle. Also within the family is UDP-N-acetylglucosamine or AGX1 and two hypothetical proteins from Borrelia burgdorferi the lyme disease spirochaete.
DUF1668	Protein of unknown function (DUF1668). The hypothetical proteins found in this family are expressed by Oryza sativa and are of unknown function.
RNA_pol_Rpb6	RNA polymerase Rpb6. Rpb6 is an essential subunit in the eukaryotic polymerases Pol I, II and III. The bacterial equivalent to Rpb6 is the omega subunit. Rpb6 and omega are structurally conserved and both function in polymerase assembly.
Ufd2P_core	Ubiquitin elongating factor core. This is the most conserved part of the core region of Ufd2P ubiquitin elongating factor or E4, running from helix alpha-11 to alpha-38. It consists of 31 helices of variable length connected by loops of variable size forming a compact unit; the helical packing pattern of the compact unit consists of five structural repeats that resemble tandem Armadillo (ARM) repeats. This domain is involved in ubiquitination as it binds Cdc48p and escorts ubiquitinated proteins from Cdc48p to the proteasome for degradation. The core is structurally similar to the nuclear transporter protein importin-alpha. The core is associated with the U-box at the C-terminus, pfam04564, which has ligase activity.
Vps51	Vps51/Vps67. This family includes a presumed domain found in a number of components of vesicular transport. The VFT tethering complex (also known as GARP complex, Golgi associated retrograde protein complex, Vps53 tethering complex) is a conserved eukaryotic docking complex which is involved recycling of proteins from endosomes to the late Golgi. Vps51 (also known as Vps67) is a subunit of VFT and interacts with the SNARE Tlg1. Cog1_N is the N-terminus of the Cog1 subunit of the eight-unit Conserved Oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex that participates in retrograde vesicular transport and is required to maintain normal Golgi structure and function. The subunits are located in two lobes and Cog1 serves to bind the two lobes together probably via the highly conserved N-terminal domain of approximately 85 residues.
URO-D	Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (URO-D). 
FtsX	Predicted permease. This is a family of predicted permeases and hypothetical transmembrane proteins. The lipoprotein-releasing system transmembrane protein lolC from Buchnera aphidicola has been shown to transport lipids targeted to the outer membrane across the inner membrane. Both lolC and an ATP-binding cassette transporter-like protein from Streptococcus cristatus have been shown to require ATP.
Rgp1	Rgp1. Rgp1 forms heterodimer with Ric1 (pfam07064) which associates with Golgi membranes and functions as a guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor.
SpoU_methylase	SpoU rRNA Methylase family. This family of proteins probably use S-AdoMet.
OTCace_N	Aspartate/ornithine carbamoyltransferase, carbamoyl-P binding domain. 
TSA	Type specific antigen. There are several antigenic variants in Rickettsia tsutsugamushi, and a type-specific antigen (TSA) of 56-kilodaltons located on the rickettsial surface is responsible for the variation. TSA proteins are probably integral membrane proteins.
Tropomyosin	Tropomyosin. 
Lig_chan	Ligand-gated ion channel. This family includes the four transmembrane regions of the ionotropic glutamate receptors and NMDA receptors.
FabA	FabA-like domain. This enzyme domain has a HotDog fold.
PTS_2-RNA	RNA 2'-phosphotransferase, Tpt1 / KptA family. Tpt1 catalyses the last step of tRNA splicing in yeast. It transfers the splice junction 2'-phosphate from ligated tRNA to NAD, to produce ADP-ribose 1"-2"-cyclic phosphate. This is presumed to be followed by a transesterification step to release the RNA. The first step of this reaction is similar to that catalysed by some bacterial toxins. Escherichia coli KptA and mouse Tpt1 are likely to use the same reaction mechanism.
Jacalin	Jacalin-like lectin domain. Proteins containing this domain are lectins. It is found in 1 to 6 copies in these proteins. The domain is also found in the animal prostatic spermine-binding protein.
AIPR	AIPR protein. This family of proteins was identified in as an abortive infection phage resistance protein often found in restriction modification system operons.
Phage_tail_3	Phage tail protein. This family of proteins include phage tail proteins. They probably include bacterial Ig-like domains related to pfam02368. Which also includes a number of phage tail invasin proteins.
DUF1078	Domain of unknown function (DUF1078). This family consists of a number of C-terminal domains of unknown function. This domain seems to be specific to flagellar basal-body rod and flagellar hook proteins in which pfam00460 is often present at the extreme N terminus.
TRCF	TRCF domain. 
SRP9	Signal recognition particle 9 kDa protein (SRP9). This family consists of several eukaryotic SRP9 proteins. SRP9 together with the Alu-homologous region of 7SL RNA and SRP14 comprise the "Alu domain" of SRP, which mediates pausing of synthesis of ribosome associated nascent polypeptides that have been engaged by the targeting domain of SRP.
Ribosomal_L37ae	Ribosomal L37ae protein family. This ribosomal protein is found in archaebacteria and eukaryotes. It contains four conserved cysteine residues that may bind to zinc.
Sod_Cu	Copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SODC). superoxide dismutases (SODs) catalyse the conversion of superoxide radicals to hydrogen peroxide and molecular oxygen. Three evolutionarily distinct families of SODs are known, of which the copper/zinc-binding family is one. Defects in the human SOD1 gene cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease). Structure is an eight-stranded beta sandwich, similar to the immunoglobulin fold.
SAM_1	SAM domain (Sterile alpha motif). It has been suggested that SAM is an evolutionarily conserved protein binding domain that is involved in the regulation of numerous developmental processes in diverse eukaryotes. The SAM domain can potentially function as a protein interaction module through its ability to homo- and heterooligomerise with other SAM domains.
Deltaretro_Tax	Deltaretrovirus Tax protein. This family consists of Rex/Tax proteins from human and simian T-cell leukaemia viruses. The exact function of these proteins is unknown. Tax is the viral transactivator; is it a nuclear phosphoprotein that interacts with CREB, coactivator CBP/p300 and PCAF to form a multiprotein complex, which activates viral LTR and stimulates virus expression. Tax is also involved in deregulated expression of numerous cellular genes leading to T-cell leukaemia. Rex is a nucleolar post transcriptional regulator that facilitates export to the cytoplasm of viral RNA not or incompletely spliced [personal communication, Dr. S Nicot].
HD	HD domain. HD domains are metal dependent phosphohydrolases.
MoCF_biosynth	Probable molybdopterin binding domain. This domain is found a variety of proteins involved in biosynthesis of molybdopterin cofactor. The domain is presumed to bind molybdopterin. The structure of this domain is known, and it forms an alpha/beta structure. In the known structure of Gephyrin this domain mediates trimerisation.
HPP	HPP family. These proteins are integral membrane proteins with four transmembrane spanning helices. The most conserved region of the alignment is a motif HPP. The function of these proteins is uncertain but they may be transporters.
UPF1_Zn_bind	RNA helicase (UPF2 interacting domain). UPF1 is an essential RNA helicase that detects mRNAs containing premature stop codons and triggers their degradation. This domain contains 3 zinc binding motifs and forms interactions with another protein (UPF2) that is also involved nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD).
M16C_assoc	Peptidase M16C associated. This domain appears in eukaryotes as well as bacteria and tends to be found near the C-terminus of the metalloprotease M16C (pfam05193).
DUF1191	Protein of unknown function (DUF1191). This family contains hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function.
HypA	Hydrogenase expression/synthesis hypA family. Four conserved cysteines lie either side of the least conserved region.
ACP_syn_III	3-Oxoacyl-[acyl-carrier-protein (ACP)] synthase III. This domain is found on 3-Oxoacyl-[acyl-carrier-protein (ACP)] synthase III EC:2.3.1.41, the enzyme responsible for initiating the chain of reactions of the fatty acid synthase in plants and bacteria.
Y_phosphatase	Protein-tyrosine phosphatase. 
TPP_enzyme_M	Thiamine pyrophosphate enzyme, central domain. The central domain of TPP enzymes contains a 2-fold Rossman fold.
S-AdoMet_synt_N	S-adenosylmethionine synthetase, N-terminal domain. The three domains of S-adenosylmethionine synthetase have the same alpha+beta fold.
HVSL	Uncharacterised conserved protein. This entry is of proteins of approximately 300 residues conserved from plants to humans. It contains two conserved motifs, HxSL and FHVSL. The function is unknown.
Alpha_TIF	Alpha trans-inducing protein (Alpha-TIF). Alpha-TIF, a virion protein (VP16), is involved in transcriptional activation of viral immediate early (IE) promoters (alpha genes). Specificity of Human herpesvirus 2 alpha trans-inducing protein for IE genes is conferred by the 400 residue N-terminal, the 80 residue C-terminal is responsible for transcriptional activation.
DUF2454	Protein of unknown function (DUF2454). A Schizosaccharomyces pombe member of this family is known to interact with Tel2. Tel2 is a component of the TOR complexes.
LSM	LSM domain. The LSM domain contains Sm proteins as well as other related LSM (Like Sm) proteins. The U1, U2, U4/U6, and U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles (snRNPs) involved in pre-mRNA splicing contain seven Sm proteins (B/B', D1, D2, D3, E, F and G) in common, which assemble around the Sm site present in four of the major spliceosomal small nuclear RNAs. The U6 snRNP binds to the LSM (Like Sm) proteins. Sm proteins are also found in archaebacteria, which do not have any splicing apparatus suggesting a more general role for Sm proteins. All Sm proteins contain a common sequence motif in two segments, Sm1 and Sm2, separated by a short variable linker. This family also includes the bacterial Hfq (host factor Q) proteins. Hfq are also RNA-binding proteins, that form hexameric rings.
PEPcase	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. 
FragX_IP	Cytoplasmic Fragile-X interacting family. CYFIP1/2 (Cytoplasmic fragile X mental retardation interacting protein) like proteins for a highly conserved protein family. The function of CYFIPs is unclear, but CYFIP interaction with fragile X mental retardation interacting protein (FMRP) involves the domain of FMRP which also mediating homo- and heteromerization.
Binary_toxB	Clostridial binary toxin B/anthrax toxin PA. The N-terminal region of this family contains a calcium-binding motif that may be an EF-hand.
UPF0029	Uncharacterized protein family UPF0029. 
DUF401	Protein of unknown function (DUF401). Members if this family are predicted to have 10 transmembrane regions.
DUF198	Uncharacterized ACR, COG1469. 
CHAD	CHAD domain. The CHAD domain is an alpha-helical domain functionally associated with the pfam01928 domains. It has conserved histidines that may chelate metals.
GshA	Glutamate-cysteine ligase. This is a rare family of glutamate-cysteine ligases, demonstrated first in Thiobacillus ferrooxidans and present in a few other Proteobacteria. It is the first of two enzymes for glutathione biosynthesis. It is also called gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase.
MmgE_PrpD	MmgE/PrpD family. This family includes 2-methylcitrate dehydratase EC:4.2.1.79 (PrpD) that is required for propionate catabolism. It catalyses the third step of the 2-methylcitric acid cycle.
Complex1_49kDa	Respiratory-chain NADH dehydrogenase, 49 Kd subunit. 
Rubredoxin	Rubredoxin. 
SchA_CurD	SchA / CurD like protein. Members of this family have only been identified in species of the Streptomyces genus. Two family members are known to be part of gene clusters involved in the synthesis of polyketide-based spore pigments, homologous to clusters involved in the synthesis of polyketide antibiotics. The function of this protein is unknown, but it has been speculated to contain a NAD(P) binding site.
DUF920	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF920). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins, as well as transglutaminase-like cysteine peptidases.
GUN4	GUN4-like. In Arabidopsis, GUN4 is required for the functioning of the plastid mediated repression of nuclear transcription that is involved in controlling the levels of magnesium- protoporphyrin IX. GUN4 binds the product and substrate of Mg-chelatase, an enzyme that produces Mg-Proto, and activates Mg-chelatase. GUN4 is thought to participates in plastid-to-nucleus signaling by regulating magnesium-protoporphyrin IX synthesis or trafficking.
AMP-binding	AMP-binding enzyme. 
Vmethyltransf	Viral methyltransferase. This RNA methyltransferase domain is found in a wide range of ssRNA viruses, including Hordei-, Tobra-, Tobamo-, Bromo-, Clostero- and Caliciviruses. This methyltransferase is involved in mRNA capping. Capping of mRNA enhances its stability. This usually occurs in the nucleus. Therefore, many viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm encode their own. This is a specific guanine-7-methyltransferase domain involved in viral mRNA cap0 synthesis. Specificity for guanine 7 position is shown by NMR in and in vivo role in cap synthesis. Based on secondary structure prediction, the basic fold is believed to be similar to the common AdoMet-dependent methyltransferase fold. A curious feature of this methyltransferase domain is that it together with flanking sequences seems to have guanylyltransferase activity coupled to the methyltransferase activity. The domain is found throughout the so-called Alphavirus superfamily, (including alphaviruses and several other groups). It forms the defining, unique feature of this superfamily.
PPR	PPR repeat. This repeat has no known function. It is about 35 amino acids long and found in up to 18 copies in some proteins. This family appears to be greatly expanded in plants. This repeat occurs in PET309, which may be involved in RNA stabilisation. This domain occurs in crp1 that is involved in RNA processing. This repeat is associated with a predicted plant protein that has a domain organisation similar to the human BRCA1 protein. The repeat has been called PPR.
Nup188	Nucleoporin subcomplex protein binding to Pom34. This is one of the many peptides that make up the nucleoporin complex (NPC), and is found across eukaryotes. The Nup188 subcomplex (Nic96p-Nup188p-Nup192p-Pom152p) is one of at least six that make up the NPC, and as such is symmetrically localised on both faces of the NPC at the nuclear end, being integrally bound to the C-terminus of Pom34p.
FF	FF domain. This domain has been predicted to be involved in protein-protein interaction. This domain was recently shown to bind the hyperphosphorylated C-terminal repeat domain of RNA polymerase II, confirming its role in protein-protein interactions.
DUF1972	Domain of unknown function (DUF1972). Members of this family of functionally uncharacterised domains are found in bacterial glycosyltransferases and rhamnosyltransferases.
Thymidylate_kin	Thymidylate kinase. 
PetN	PetN. PetN is a small hydrophobic protein, crucial for cytochrome b6-f complex assembly and/or stability.
DUF88	Protein of unknown function DUF88. This highly conserved bacterial protein has no known function. The alignment contains many conserved aspartates, suggesting an enzymatic function such as an endonuclease or glycosyl hydrolase (Bateman A pers. obs).
MAP1_LC3	Microtubule associated protein 1A/1B, light chain 3. Light chain 3 is proposed to function primarily as a subunit of microtubule associated proteins 1A and 1B and that its expression may regulate microtubule binding activity.
ACP_syn_III_C	3-Oxoacyl-[acyl-carrier-protein (ACP)] synthase III C terminal. This domain is found on 3-Oxoacyl-[acyl-carrier-protein (ACP)] synthase III EC:2.3.1.41, the enzyme responsible for initiating the chain of reactions of the fatty acid synthase in plants and bacteria.
DUF2012	Protein of unknown function (DUF2012). This is a eukaryotic family of uncharacterised proteins.
YscO	Type III secretion protein YscO. This family contains the bacterial type III secretion protein YscO, which is approximately 150 residues long. YscO has been shown to be required for high-level expression and secretion of the anti-host proteins V antigen and Yops in Yersinia pestis.
DNA_primase_lrg	Eukaryotic and archaeal DNA primase, large subunit. DNA primase is the polymerase that synthesises small RNA primers for the Okazaki fragments made during discontinuous DNA replication. DNA primase is a heterodimer of two subunits, the small subunit Pri1 (48 kDa in yeast), and the large subunit Pri2 (58 kDa in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae). The large subunit of DNA primase forms interactions with the small subunit and the structure implicates that it is not directly involved in catalysis, but plays roles in correctly positioning the primase/DNA complex, and in the transfer of RNA to DNA polymerase.
CASP_C	CASP C terminal. This domain is the C-terminal region of the CASP family of proteins. It is a Golgi membrane protein which is thought to have a role in vesicle transport.
SRP40_C	SRP40, C-terminal domain. This presumed domain is found at the C-terminus of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SRP40 protein and its homologues. SRP40/nopp40 is a chaperone involved in nucleocytoplasmic transport. SRP40 is also a suppressor of mutant AC40 subunit of RNA polymerase I and III.
PEN-2	Presenilin enhancer-2 subunit of gamma secretase. This entry is a short 101 peptide protein which is the smallest subunit of the gamma-secretase aspartyl protease complex that catalyses the intramembrane cleavage of a subset of type I transmembrane proteins. The other active constituents of the complex are presenilin (PS) nicastrin and anterior pharynx defective-1 (APH-1) protein. PEN-2 adopts a hairpin orientation in the membrane with its N- and C-terminal domains facing the luminal/extracellular space, and the C-terminal domain maintains PS stability within the complex.
Cation_ATPase_C	Cation transporting ATPase, C-terminus. Members of this families are involved in Na+/K+, H+/K+, Ca++ and Mg++ transport. This family represents 5 transmembrane helices.
KdpC	K+-transporting ATPase, c chain. This family consists of K+-transporting ATPase, c chain, KdpC. KdpC forms strong interactions with the KdpA subunit, serving to assemble and stabilise the Kdp complex. It has been suggested that KdpC could be one of the connecting links between the energy providing subunit KdpB and the K+-transporting subunit KdpA. The K+ transport system actively transports K+ ions via ATP hydrolysis.
Mad3_BUB1_I	Mad3/BUB1 homology region 1. Proteins containing this domain are checkpoint proteins involved in cell division. This region has been shown to be essential for the binding of the binding of BUB1 and MAD3 to CDC20p.
Glyco_hydro_11	Glycosyl hydrolases family 11. 
DUF751	Protein of unknown function (DUF751). This family contains several plant, cyanobacterial and algal proteins of unknown function. The family is exclusively found in phototrophic organisms and may therefore play a role in photosynthesis (personal obs:Moxon SJ).
UPF0187	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0187). This family of proteins is functionally uncharacterised.
zf-C4_Topoisom	Topoisomerase DNA binding C4 zinc finger. 
GDE_C	Amylo-alpha-1,6-glucosidase. This family includes human glycogen branching enzyme. This enzyme contains a number of distinct catalytic activities. It has been shown for the yeast homologue that mutations in this region disrupt the enzymes Amylo-alpha-1,6-glucosidase (EC:3.2.1.33).
DUF802	Domain of unknown function (DUF802). This region is found as two or more repeats in a small number of hypothetical proteins.
SRP-alpha_N	Signal recognition particle, alpha subunit, N-terminal. SRP is a complex of six distinct polypeptides and a 7S RNA that is essential for transferring nascent polypeptide chains that are destined for export from the cell to the translocation apparatus of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. SRP binds hydrophobic signal sequences as they emerge from the ribosome, and arrests translation.
KH_2	KH domain. 
CenpB-DNA-bind	Centromere binding protein B, DNA binding. Members of this family adopt a helix-turn-helix motif, with a core of three alpha helices forming a helical bundle. They bind to a corresponding CENP-B box, a specific subset of alphoid satellite DNA.
Fasciclin	Fasciclin domain. This extracellular domain is found repeated four times in grasshopper fasciclin I as well as in proteins from mammals, sea urchins, plants, yeast and bacteria.
PLRV_ORF5	Potato leaf roll virus readthrough protein. This family consists mainly of the potato leaf roll virus readthrough protein. This is generated via a readthrough of open reading frame 3 a coat protein allowing transcription of open reading frame 5 to give an extended coat protein with a large c-terminal addition or read through domain. The readthrough protein is thought to play a role in the circulative aphid transmission of potato leaf roll virus. Also in the family is open reading frame 6 from beet western yellows virus and potato leaf roll virus both luteovirus and an unknown protein from cucurbit aphid-borne yellows virus a closterovirus.
DUF1985	Domain of unknown function (DUF1985). Members of this family of functionally uncharacterised domains are found in a set of Arabidopsis thaliana hypothetical proteins.
Gmx_para_CXXCG	Protein of unknown function (Gmx_para_CXXCG). This entry consists of at least 10 paralogous proteins from Myxococcus xanthus and that lack detectable sequence similarity to any other protein family. An imperfectly conserved CXXCG motif, a probable binding site, appears twice in the multiple sequence alignment.
DUF2160	Predicted small integral membrane protein (DUF2160). The members of this family of hypothetical prokaryotic proteins have no known function. It is thought that they are transmembrane proteins, but their function has not been inferred yet.
YDG_SRA	YDG/SRA domain. The function of this domain is unknown, it contains a conserved motif YDG after which it has been named.
DHC_N1	Dynein heavy chain, N-terminal region 1. Dynein heavy chains interact with other heavy chains to form dimers, and with intermediate chain-light chain complexes to form a basal cargo binding unit. The region featured in this family includes the sequences implicated in mediating these interactions. It is thought to be flexible and not to adopt a rigid conformation.
KOW	KOW motif. This family has been extended to coincide with ref. The KOW (Kyprides, Ouzounis, Woese) motif is found in a variety of ribosomal proteins and NusG.
Rep_1	Replication protein. Replication proteins (rep) are involved in plasmid replication. The Rep protein binds to the plasmid DNA and nicks it at the double strand origin (dso) of replication. The 3'-hydroxyl end created is extended by the host DNA replicase, and the 5' end is displaced during synthesis. At the end of one replication round, Rep introduces a second single stranded break at the dso and ligates the ssDNA extremities generating one double-stranded plasmid and one circular ssDNA form. Complementary strand synthesis of the circular ssDNA is usually initiated at the single-stranded origin by the host RNA polymerase.
Gp58	gp58-like protein. Sequences found in this family are derived from a number of bacteriophage and prophage proteins. They are similar to gp58, a minor structural protein of Lactococcus delbrueckii bacteriophage LL-H.
DUF83	Domain of unknown function DUF83. This domain has no known function. The domain contains three conserved cysteines at its C terminus.
Rab5-bind	Rab5 binding. Members of this family are predominantly found in Rabaptin and allow for binding to the GTPase Rab5. This interaction is necessary and sufficient for Rab5-dependent recruitment of Rabaptin5 to early endosomal membranes.
COesterase	Carboxylesterase. 
DUF1839	Domain of unknown function (DUF1839). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised.
SHMT	Serine hydroxymethyltransferase. 
SCP	SCP-like extracellular protein. This domain is also found in prokaryotes. It has also been proposed to be a Ca++ chelating serine protease. The Ca++-chelating function would fit with the various signalling processes (e.g. the CRISP proteins) that members of this family are involved in, and also the sequence and structural evidence of a conserved pocket containing two histidines and a glutamate. It also may explain how helothermine, a lizard venom toxin, blocks the Ca++ transporting ryanodine receptors.
NUDIX-like	NADH pyrophosphatase-like rudimentary NUDIX domain. The N-terminal domain in NADH pyrophosphatase, which has a rudiment Nudix fold according to SCOP.
YGGT	YGGT family. This family consists of a repeat found in conserved hypothetical integral membrane proteins. The function of this region and the proteins which possess it is unknown.
Peptidase_C48	Ulp1 protease family, C-terminal catalytic domain. This domain contains the catalytic triad Cys-His-Asn.
SAM_decarbox	Adenosylmethionine decarboxylase. This is a family of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) proenzymes. In the biosynthesis of polyamines SAMDC produces decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine, which serves as the aminopropyl moiety necessary for spermidine and spermine biosynthesis from putrescine. The Pfam alignment contains both the alpha and beta chains that are cleaved to form the active enzyme.
DUF1005	Protein of unknown function (DUF1005). Family of plant proteins with undetermined function.
Pox_int_trans	Poxvirus intermediate transcription factor. This family consists of several highly related Poxvirus sequences which are thought to be intermediate transcription factors.
ATP-synt_DE_N	ATP synthase, Delta/Epsilon chain, beta-sandwich domain. Part of the ATP synthase CF(1). These subunits are part of the head unit of the ATP synthase. The subunit is called epsilon in bacteria and delta in mitochondria. In bacteria the delta (D) subunit is equivalent to the mitochondrial Oligomycin sensitive subunit, OSCP (pfam00213).
Autophagy_Cterm	Autophagocytosis associated protein, very C-terminal domain. Autophagocytosis is a starvation-induced process responsible for transport of cytoplasmic proteins to the vacuole. The small C-terminal domain is likely to be a distinct binding region for the stability of the autophagosome complex. It carries a highly characteristic conserved FLKF sequence motif.
Chorion_2	Chorion family 2. The chorion genes of Drosophila are amplified in response to developmental signals in the follicle cells of the ovary.
PhzC-PhzF	Phenazine biosynthesis-like protein. PhzC/PhzF is involved in dimerisation of two 2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-anthranilic acid molecules to create PCA by P. fluorescens. This family also contains a putative thymidilate synthase from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, though there is no significant sequence similarity to pfam00303 members. This family appears to be distantly related to pfam01678, including containing a weak internal duplication. However members of this family do not contain the conserved cysteines that are hypothesised to be active site residues (Bateman A pers obs).
SepQ	SepQ protein. This family consists of several enterobacterial SepQ proteins from Escherichia coli and Citrobacter rodentium. The function of this family is unclear.
FrhB_FdhB_C	Coenzyme F420 hydrogenase/dehydrogenase, beta subunit C terminus. Coenzyme F420 hydrogenase (EC:1.12.99.1) reduces the low-potential two-electron acceptor coenzyme F420. This family contains the C termini of F420 hydrogenase and dehydrogenase beta subunits,. The N terminus of Methanobacterium formicicum formate dehydrogenase beta chain (EC:1.2.1.2) is also a member of this family. This region is often found in association with the 4Fe-4S binding domain, fer4 (pfam00037).
HGTP_anticodon	Anticodon binding domain. This domain is found in histidyl, glycyl, threonyl and prolyl tRNA synthetases it is probably the anticodon binding domain.
DUF639	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF639). Plant protein of unknown function.
Ribosomal_L12	Ribosomal protein L7/L12 C-terminal domain. 
CrtC	Hydroxyneurosporene synthase (CrtC). This family consists of several purple photosynthetic bacterial hydroxyneurosporene synthase (CrtC) proteins. The enzyme catalyses the conversion of various acyclic carotenes including 1-hydroxy derivatives. This broad substrate specificity reflects the participation of CrtC in 1'-HO-spheroidene and in spirilloxanthin biosynthesis.
UAA	UAA transporter family. This family includes transporters with a specificity for UDP-N-acetylglucosamine.
Fcf1	Fcf1. Fcf1 is a nucleolar protein involved in pre-rRNA processing. Depletion of yeast Fcf1 and Fcf2 leads to a decrease in synthesis of the 18S rRNA and results in a deficit in 40S ribosomal subunits.
DUF2470	Protein of unknown function (DUF2470). This family is a putative haem-iron utilisation family, as many members are annotated as being pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate oxidase-related, FMN-binding; however this could not be confirmed.
Pex2_Pex12	Pex2 / Pex12 amino terminal region. This region is found at the N terminal of a number of known and predicted peroxins including Pex2, Pex10 and Pex12. This conserved region is usually associated with a C terminal ring finger (pfam00097) domain.
DUF2254	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2254). Members of this family of bacterial proteins comprises various hypothetical and putative membrane proteins. Their exact function, has not, as yet, been defined.
Enolase_N	Enolase, N-terminal domain. 
Cenp-F_leu_zip	Leucine-rich repeats of kinetochore protein Cenp-F/LEK1. Cenp-F, a centromeric kinetochore, microtubule-binding protein consisting of two 1,600-amino acid-long coils, is essential for the full functioning of the mitotic checkpoint pathway. There are several leucine-rich repeats along the sequence of LEK1 that are considered to be zippers, though they do not appear to be binding DNA directly in this instance.
Neisseria_TspB	Neisseria meningitidis TspB protein. This family consists of several Neisseria meningitidis TspB virulence factor proteins.
Steroid_dh	3-oxo-5-alpha-steroid 4-dehydrogenase. This family consists of 3-oxo-5-alpha-steroid 4-dehydrogenases, EC:1.3.99.5 Also known as Steroid 5-alpha-reductase, the reaction catalysed by this enzyme is: 3-oxo-5-alpha-steroid + acceptor <=> 3-oxo-delta(4)-steroid + reduced acceptor. The Steroid 5-alpha-reductase enzyme is responsible for the formation of dihydrotestosterone, this hormone promotes the differentiation of male external genitalia and the prostate during fetal development. In humans mutations in this enzyme can cause a form of male pseudohermaphorditism in which the external genitalia and prostate fail to develop normally. A related enzyme is also found in plants is DET2, a steroid reductase from Arabidopsis. Mutations in this enzyme cause defects in light-regulated development.
BPD_transp_2	Branched-chain amino acid transport system / permease component. This is a large family mainly comprising high-affinity branched-chain amino acid transporter proteins such as Escherichia coli LivH and LivM, both of which are form the LIV-I transport system. Also found with in this family are proteins from the galactose transport system permease and a ribose transport system.
GRIM-19	GRIM-19 protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic gene associated with retinoic-interferon-induced mortality 19 (GRIM-19) proteins. GRIM-19, was reported to encode a small protein primarily distributed in the nucleus and was able to promote cell death induced by IFN-# and RA. A bovine homologue of GRIM-19 was co-purified with mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) in bovine heart. Therefore, its exact cellular localisation and function are unclear. It has now been discovered that GRIM-19 is a specific interacting protein which negatively regulates Stat3 activity.
NTP_transferase	Nucleotidyl transferase. This family includes a wide range of enzymes which transfer nucleotides onto phosphosugars.
ZZ	Zinc finger, ZZ type. Zinc finger present in dystrophin, CBP/p300. ZZ in dystrophin binds calmodulin. Putative zinc finger; binding not yet shown. Four to six cysteine residues in its sequence are responsible for coordinating zinc ions, to reinforce the structure.
Opiods_neuropep	Vertebrate endogenous opioids neuropeptide. 
VirB3	Type IV secretory pathway, VirB3-like protein. This family includes the Type IV secretory pathway VirB3 protein, that is found associated with bacterial inner and outer membranes.
C2	C2 domain. 
Transposase_11	Transposase DDE domain. Transposase proteins are necessary for efficient DNA transposition. This domain is a member of the DDE superfamily, which contain three carboxylate residues that are believed to be responsible for coordinating metal ions needed for catalysis. The catalytic activity of this enzyme involves DNA cleavage at a specific site followed by a strand transfer reaction. This family contains transposases for IS4, IS421, IS5377, IS427, IS402, IS1355, IS5, which was original isolated in bacteriophage lambda.
DUF1077	Protein of unknown function (DUF1077). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
Filo_VP35	Filoviridae VP35. 
MFS_Mycoplasma	Mycoplasma MFS transporter. These proteins share some similarity with members of the Major Facilitator Superfamily (MFS).
Adeno_PVIII	Adenovirus hexon associated protein, protein VIII. See pfam01065. This family represents Hexon.
Oxidored_q1_N	NADH-Ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), chain 5 N-terminus. This sub-family represents an amino terminal extension of pfam00361. Only NADH-Ubiquinone chain 5 and eubacterial chain L are in this family. This sub-family is part of complex I which catalyses the transfer of two electrons from NADH to ubiquinone in a reaction that is associated with proton translocation across the membrane.
PWWP	PWWP domain. The PWWP domain is named after a conserved Pro-Trp-Trp-Pro motif. The function of the domain is currently unknown.
CTP_transf_3	Cytidylyltransferase. This family consists of two main Cytidylyltransferase activities: 1) 3-deoxy-manno-octulosonate cytidylyltransferase,, EC:2.7.7.38 catalysing the reaction:- CTP + 3-deoxy-D-manno-octulosonate <=> diphosphate + CMP-3-deoxy-D-manno-octulosonate, 2) acylneuraminate cytidylyltransferase EC:2.7.7.43,, catalysing the reaction:- CTP + N-acylneuraminate <=> diphosphate + CMP-N-acylneuraminate. NeuAc cytydilyltransferase of Mannheimia haemolytica has been characterised describing kinetics and regulation by substrate charge, energetic charge and amino-sugar demand.
SoxE	Sulfocyanin (SoxE). This family consists of several archaeal sulfocyanin (or blue copper protein) sequences from a number of Sulfolobus species.
Serpin	Serpin (serine protease inhibitor). Structure is a multi-domain fold containing a bundle of helices and a beta sandwich.
Carb_anhydrase	Eukaryotic-type carbonic anhydrase. 
GFO_IDH_MocA_C	Oxidoreductase family, C-terminal alpha/beta domain. This family of enzymes utilise NADP or NAD. This family is called the GFO/IDH/MOCA family in Swiss-Prot.
EFG_IV	Elongation factor G, domain IV. This domain is found in elongation factor G, elongation factor 2 and some tetracycline resistance proteins and adopts a ribosomal protein S5 domain 2-like fold.
Pep3_Vps18	Pep3/Vps18/deep orange family. This region is found in a number of protein identified as involved in golgi function and vacuolar sorting. The molecular function of this region is unknown. The members of this family contain a C-terminal ring finger domain.
SBP	SBP domain. SBP domains (for SQUAMOSA-pROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN) are found in plant proteins. It is a sequence specific DNA-binding domain. Members of family probably function as transcription factors involved in the control of early flower development. The domain contains 10 conserved cysteine and histidine residues that probably are zinc ligands.
HALZ	Homeobox associated leucine zipper. 
GCD14	tRNA methyltransferase complex GCD14 subunit. GCD14 is a subunit of the tRNA methyltransferase complex and is required for 1-methyladenosine modification and maturation of initiator methionyl-tRNA.
DUF2302	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2302). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
Skp1_POZ	Skp1 family, tetramerisation domain. 
DUF1977	Domain of unknown function (DUF1977). Members of this family of functionally uncharacterised domains are predominantly found in dnaj-like proteins.
Sec20	Sec20. Sec20 is a membrane glycoprotein associated with secretory pathway.
EXOSC1	Exosome component EXOSC1/CSL4. This family of proteins are components of the exosome 3'->5' exoribonuclease complex. The exosome mediates degradation of unstable mRNAs that contain AU-rich elements (AREs) within their 3' untranslated regions.
eIF-4B	Plant specific eukaryotic initiation factor 4B. This family consists of several plant specific eukaryotic initiation factor 4B proteins.
Disintegrin	Disintegrin. 
ABC_membrane	ABC transporter transmembrane region. This family represents a unit of six transmembrane helices. Many members of the ABC transporter family (pfam00005) have two such regions.
Sgf11	Sgf11 (transcriptional regulation protein). The Sgf11 family is a SAGA complex subunit in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The SAGA complex is a multisubunit protein complex involved in transcriptional regulation. SAGA combines proteins involved in interactions with DNA-bound activators and TATA-binding protein (TBP), as well as enzymes for histone acetylation and deubiquitylation.
Nfu_N	Scaffold protein Nfu/NifU N terminal. This domain is found at the N terminus of NifU and NifU related proteins, and in the human Nfu protein. Both of these proteins are thought to be involved in the the assembly of iron-sulphur clusters.
ATP-grasp_2	ATP-grasp domain. 
Pol_alpha_B_N	DNA polymerase alpha subunit B N-terminal. This is the eukaryotic DNA polymerase alpha subunit B N-terminal domain which is involved in complex formation. Also see pfam04058.
DUF1640	Protein of unknown function (DUF1640). This family consists of sequences derived from hypothetical eukaryotic proteins. A region approximately 100 residues in length is featured.
Cytochrom_D1	Cytochrome D1 heme domain. Cytochrome cd1 (nitrite reductase) catalyses the conversion of nitrite to nitric oxide in the nitrogen cycle. This family represents the d1 heme binding domain of cytochrome cd1, in which His/Tyr side chains ligate the d1 heme iron of the active site in the oxidised state.
DUF584	Protein of unknown function, DUF584. This family contains several uncharacterised proteins.
DUF2364	Protein of unknown function (DUF2364). This is a family of proteins highly conserved from nematodes to humans. The function is unknown.
HWE_HK	HWE histidine kinase. Two-component systems, consisting of a histidine kinase and a cognate response regulator protein, represent the best-known apparatus for transducing external cues into a physiological response in bacteria. The HWE domain is found in a subset of two-component system kinases, belonging to the same superfamily as pfam00512. The family was defined by the presence of a highly conserved H residue in the kinase domain and a WxE motif in a C-terminal ATPase domain that is related to pfam02518. These proteins are found in a variety of alpha- and gamma-proteobacteria, with significant enrichment in the rhizobia.
FAD_binding_5	FAD binding domain in molybdopterin dehydrogenase. 
DUF1631	Protein of unknown function (DUF1631). The members of this family are sequences derived from a group of hypothetical proteins expressed by certain bacterial species. The region concerned is approximately 440 amino acid residues in length.
Peptidase_C5	Adenovirus endoprotease. This family of adenovirus thiol endoproteases specifically cleave Gly-Ala peptides in viral precursor peptides.
DapB_C	Dihydrodipicolinate reductase, C-terminus. Dihydrodipicolinate reductase (DapB) reduces the alpha,beta-unsaturated cyclic imine, dihydro-dipicolinate. This reaction is the second committed step in the biosynthesis of L-lysine and its precursor meso-diaminopimelate, which are critical for both protein and cell wall biosynthesis. The C-terminal domain of DapB has been proposed to be the substrate- binding domain.
GcpE	GcpE protein. In a variety of organisms, including plants and several eubacteria, isoprenoids are synthesised by the mevalonate-independent 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway. Although different enzymes of this pathway have been described, the terminal biosynthetic steps of the MEP pathway have not been fully elucidated. GcpE gene of Escherichia coli is involved in this pathway.
DUF89	Protein of unknown function DUF89. This family has no known function.
GntR	Bacterial regulatory proteins, gntR family. This family of regulatory proteins consists of the N-terminal HTH region of GntR-like bacterial transcription factors. At the C-terminus there is usually an effector-binding/oligomerisation domain. The GntR-like proteins include the following sub-families: MocR, YtrR, FadR, AraR, HutC and PlmA, DevA, DasR. Many of these proteins have been shown experimentally to be autoregulatory, enabling the prediction of operator sites and the discovery of cis/trans relationships. The DasR regulator has been shown to be a global regulator of primary metabolism and development in Streptomyces coelicolor.
FeS	Putative Fe-S cluster. This family includes a domain with four conserved cysteines that probably form an Fe-S redox cluster.
DDOST_48kD	Dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide-protein glycosyltransferase 48kD subunit. Members of this family are involved in asparagine-linked protein glycosylation. In particular, dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide-protein glycosyltransferase (DDOST), also known as oligosaccharyltransferase EC:2.4.1.119, transfers the high-mannose sugar GlcNAc(2)-Man(9)-Glc(3) from a dolichol-linked donor to an asparagine acceptor in a consensus Asn-X-Ser/Thr motif. In most eukaryotes, the DDOST complex is composed of three subunits, which in humans are described as a 48kD subunit, ribophorin I, and ribophorin II. However, the yeast DDOST appears to consist of six subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon, zeta). The yeast beta subunit is a 45kD polypeptide, previously discovered as the Wbp1 protein, with known sequence similarity to the human 48kD subunit and the other orthologues. This family includes the 48kD-like subunits from several eukaryotes; it also includes the yeast DDOST beta subunit Wbp1.
DUF149	Uncharacterised BCR, YbaB family COG0718. 
FBA_3	F-box associated. 
PUF	Pumilio-family RNA binding repeat. Puf repeats (aka PUM-HD, Pumilio homology domain) are necessary and sufficient for sequence specific RNA binding in fly Pumilio and worm FBF-1 and FBF-2. Both proteins function as translational repressors in early embryonic development by binding sequences in the 3' UTR of target mRNAs (e.g. the nanos response element (NRE) in fly Hunchback mRNA, or the point mutation element (PME) in worm fem-3 mRNA). Other proteins that contain Puf domains are also plausible RNA binding proteins. Yeast PUF1 (JSN1), for instance, appears to also contain a single RRM domain by HMM analysis. Puf domains usually occur as a tandem repeat of 8 domains. The Pfam model does not necessarily recognise all 8 repeats in all sequences; some sequences appear to have 5 or 6 repeats on initial analysis, but further analysis suggests the presence of additional divergent repeats. Structures of PUF repeat proteins show they consist of a two helix structure.
ACBP	Acyl CoA binding protein. 
Sec61_beta	Sec61beta family. This family consists of homologues of Sec61beta - a component of the Sec61/SecYEG protein secretory system. The domain is found in eukaryotes and archaea and is possibly homologous to the bacterial SecG. It consists of a single putative transmembrane helix, preceded by a short stretch containing various charged residues; this arrangement may help determine orientation in the cell membrane.
Slx4	Slx4 endonuclease. The Slx4 protein is a heteromeric structure-specific endonuclease found in fungi. Slx4 with Slx1 acts as a nuclease on branched DNA substrates, particularly simple-Y, 5'-flap, or replication fork structures by cleaving the strand bearing the 5' non-homologous arm at the branch junction and thus generating ligatable nicked products from 5'-flap or replication fork substrates.
DUF1352	Protein of unknown function (DUF1352). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of around 190 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
CoA_transf_3	CoA-transferase family III. CoA-transferases are found in organisms from all lines of descent. Most of these enzymes belong to two well-known enzyme families, but recent work on unusual biochemical pathways of anaerobic bacteria has revealed the existence of a third family of CoA-transferases. The members of this enzyme family differ in sequence and reaction mechanism from CoA-transferases of the other families. Currently known enzymes of the new family are a formyl-CoA: oxalate CoA-transferase, a succinyl-CoA: (R)-benzylsuccinate CoA-transferase, an (E)-cinnamoyl-CoA: (R)-phenyllactate CoA-transferase, and a butyrobetainyl-CoA: (R)-carnitine CoA-transferase. In addition, a large number of proteins of unknown or differently annotated function from Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya apparently belong to this enzyme family. Properties and reaction mechanisms of the CoA-transferases of family III are described and compared to those of the previously known CoA-transferases.
BAH	BAH domain. This domain has been called BAH (Bromo adjacent homology) domain and has also been called ELM1 and BAM (Bromo adjacent motif) domain. The function of this domain is unknown but may be involved in protein-protein interaction.
PAE	Pectinacetylesterase. 
eIF-3_zeta	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit 7 (eIF-3). This family is made up of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit 7 (eIF-3 zeta/eIF3 p66/eIF3d). Eukaryotic initiation factor 3 is a multi-subunit complex that is required for binding of mRNA to 40 S ribosomal subunits, stabilisation of ternary complex binding to 40 S subunits, and dissociation of 40 and 60 S subunits. These functions and the complex nature of eIF3 suggest multiple interactions with many components of the translational machinery. The gene coding for the protein has been implicated in cancer in mammals.
DUF2451	Protein of unknown function C-terminus (DUF2451). This protein is found in eukaryotes but its function is not known. The C-terminal part of some members is DUF2450.
Zip	ZIP Zinc transporter. The ZIP family consists of zinc transport proteins and many putative metal transporters. The main contribution to this family is from the Arabidopsis thaliana ZIP protein family these proteins are responsible for zinc uptake in the plant. Also found within this family are Caenorhabditis elegans proteins of unknown function which are annotated as being similar to human growth arrest inducible gene product, although this protein in not found within this family.
Coil_helix	Coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain-containing protein 1. Members of this family of proteins have no known function.
DUF842	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF842). This family consists of a number of conserved eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
THP2	Tho complex subunit THP2. The THO complex plays a role in coupling transcription elongation to mRNA export. It is composed of subunits THP2, HPR1, THO2 and MFT1.
DUF512	Protein of unknown function (DUF512). Family of uncharacterised prokaryotic proteins.
TLC	TLC ATP/ADP transporter. 
Spb1_C	Spb1 C-terminal domain. This presumed domain is found at the C-terminus of a family of FtsJ-like methyltransferases. Members of this family are involved in 60S ribosomal biogenesis.
ANKH	Progressive ankylosis protein (ANKH). This family consists of several progressive ankylosis protein (ANK or ANKH) sequences. The ANK protein spans the outer cell membrane and shuttles inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi), a major inhibitor of physiologic and pathologic calcification, bone mineralisation and bone resorption. Mutations in ANK are thought to give rise to Craniometaphyseal dysplasia (CMD) which is a rare skeletal disorder characterised by progressive thickening and increased mineral density of craniofacial bones and abnormally developed metaphyses in long bones.
DUF1752	Fungal protein of unknown function (DUF1752). This is a family of fungal proteins of unknown function.
Acid_phosphat_A	Histidine acid phosphatase. 
Adenosine_kin	Adenosine specific kinase. The structure of a member of this family from the hyperthermophilic archaeon Pyrobaculum aerophilum contains a modified histidine residue which is interpreted as stable phosphorylation. In vitro binding studies confirmed that adenosine and AMP but not ADP or ATP bind to the protein.
Cut8	Cut8. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Cut8 is a nuclear envelope protein that physically interacts with and tethers 26S proteasome in the nucleus resulting in the nuclear accumulation of proteasome. Cut8 is a proteasome substrate and amino terminal residues 1-72 are polyubiquitinated and function as a degron tag. Ubiquitination of the amino terminal is essential to the function of Cut8. Lysine residues in the amino terminal 72 amino acids of Cut8 are required for physical interaction with proteasome. In fission yeast the function of Cut8 has been demonstrated to be regulated by ubiquitin-conjugating Rhp6/Ubc2/Rad6 and ligating enzymes Ubr1. Cut8 homologs have been identified in Drosophila melanogaster, Anopheles gambiae and Dictyostelium discoideum.
DUF321	Protein of unknown function (DUF321). This family may be related to the FARP (FMRFamide) family, pfam01581. Currently this repeat was only detectable in Arabidopsis thaliana.
Herpes_BLLF1	Herpes virus major outer envelope glycoprotein (BLLF1). This family consists of the BLLF1 viral late glycoprotein, also termed gp350/220. It is the most abundantly expressed glycoprotein in the viral envelope of the Herpesviruses and is the major antigen responsible for stimulating the production of neutralising antibodies in vivo.
MRP-S28	Mitochondrial ribosomal subunit protein. This is a conserved region of approx. 125 residues of one of the proteins that makes up the small subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the protein is MRP-S24 whereas in humans it is MRP-S28. The human mitochondrial ribosome has 29 distinct proteins in the small subunit and these have homologues in, for example, Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans, and in the genomes of several fungi.
DUF2348	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2348). Members of this family of putative uncharacterized proteins have no known function.
Bug	Bordetella uptake gene (bug) product. These probable extra-cytoplasmic solute receptors are strongly overrepresented in several beta-proteobacteria.
ATP-synt_E	ATP synthase E chain. This family consists of several ATP synthase E chain sequences which are components of the CF(0) subunit.
VAR1	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein (VAR1). This family consists of the yeast mitochondrial ribosomal proteins VAR1. Mitochondria possess their own ribosomes responsible for the synthesis of a small number of proteins encoded by the mitochondrial genome. In yeast the two ribosomal RNAs and a single ribosomal protein, VAR1, are products of mitochondrial genes, and the remaining approximately 80 ribosomal proteins are encoded in the nucleus. VAR1 along with 15S rRNA are necessary for the formation of mature 37S subunits.
PUA	PUA domain. The PUA domain named after Pseudouridine synthase and Archaeosine transglycosylase, was detected in archaeal and eukaryotic pseudouridine synthases, archaeal archaeosine synthases, a family of predicted ATPases that may be involved in RNA modification, a family of predicted archaeal and bacterial rRNA methylases. Additionally, the PUA domain was detected in a family of eukaryotic proteins that also contain a domain homologous to the translation initiation factor eIF1/SUI1; these proteins may comprise a novel type of translation factors. Unexpectedly, the PUA domain was detected also in bacterial and yeast glutamate kinases; this is compatible with the demonstrated role of these enzymes in the regulation of the expression of other genes. It is predicted that the PUA domain is an RNA binding domain.
LysE	LysE type translocator. This family consists of various hypothetical proteins and an l-lysine exporter LysE from Corynebacterium glutamicum which is proposed to be the first of a novel family of translocators. LysE exports l-lysine from the cell into the surrounding medium and is predicted to span the membrane six times. The physiological function of the exporter is to excrete excess l-Lysine as a result of natural flux imbalances or peptide hydrolysis; and also after artificial deregulation of l-Lysine biosynthesis as used by the biotechnology. industry for the production of l-lysine.
DUF607	Protein of unknown function, DUF607. This family represents a conserved region found in several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
DUF667	Protein of unknown function (DUF667). This family of proteins are highly conserved in eukaryotes. Some proteins in the family are annotated as transcription factors. However, there is currently no support for this in the literature.
CaM_binding	Plant calmodulin-binding domain. The sequences featured in this family are found repeated in a number of plant calmodulin-binding proteins and are thought to constitute the calmodulin-binding domains. Binding of the proteins to calmodulin depends on the presence of calcium ions. These proteins are thought to be involved in various processes, such as plant defence responses and stolonisation or tuberization.
BTAD	Bacterial transcriptional activator domain. Found in the DNRI/REDD/AFSR family of regulators. This region of AFSR along with the C terminal region is capable of independently directing actinorhodin production.
IKI3	IKI3 family. Members of this family are components of the elongator multi-subunit component of a novel RNA polymerase II holoenzyme for transcriptional elongation.
Transgly_assoc	Transglycosylase associated protein. Bacterial protein, predicted to be an integral membrane protein. Some family members have been annotated as transglycosylase associated proteins, but no experimental evidence is provided. This family was annotated based on the information in Eschericha coli ymge.
FadR_C	FadR C-terminal domain. This family contains sequences that are similar to the fatty acid metabolism regulator protein (FadR). This functions as a dimer, with each monomer being composed of an N-terminal DNA-binding domain and a regulatory C-terminal domain. A linker comprising two short alpha helices joins the two domains. In the C-terminal domain, an antiparallel array of six alpha helices forms a barrel-like structure, while a seventh alpha helix forms a 'lid' at the end closest to the N-terminal domain. This structure was found to be similar to that of the C-terminal domain of the Tet repressor. Long-chain acyl-CoA thioesters interact directly and reversibly with the C-terminal domain, and this interaction affects the structure and therefore the DNA binding properties of the N-terminal domain.
MGS	MGS-like domain. This domain composes the whole protein of methylglyoxal synthetase and the domain is also found in Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (CPS) where it forms a regulatory domain that binds to the allosteric effector ornithine. This family also includes inosicase. The known structures in this family show a common phosphate binding site.
ATP-sulfurylase	ATP-sulfurylase. This family consists of ATP-sulfurylase or sulfate adenylyltransferase EC:2.7.7.4 some of which are part of a bifunctional polypeptide chain associated with adenosyl phosphosulphate (APS) kinase pfam01583. Both enzymes are required for PAPS (phosphoadenosine-phosphosulfate) synthesis from inorganic sulphate. ATP sulfurylase catalyses the synthesis of adenosine-phosphosulfate APS from ATP and inorganic sulphate.
DUF295	Protein of unknown function (DUF295). This family of proteins are found in plants. The function of the proteins is unknown.
CHRD	CHRD domain. CHRD (after Swiss-Prot abbreviation for chordin) is a novel domain identified in chordin, an inhibitor of bone morphogenetic proteins. This family includes bacterial homologues. It is anticipated to have an immunoglobulin-like beta-barrel structure based on limited similarity to superoxide dismutases but, as yet, no clear functional prediction can be made. Its most conserved feature is a GE[I/L]RCG[V/I/L] motif towards its C-terminal end Most bacterial proteins in this family have only one CHRD domain, whereas it is found repeated in many eukaryotic proteins such as human chordin and Drosophila SOG..
OGG_N	8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase, N-terminal domain. The presence of 8-oxoguanine residues in DNA can give rise to G-C to T-A transversion mutations. This enzyme is found in archaeal, bacterial and eukaryotic species, and is specifically responsible for the process which leads to the removal of 8-oxoguanine residues. It has DNA glycosylase activity (EC:3.2.2.23) and DNA lyase activity (EC:4.2.99.18). The region featured in this family is the N-terminal domain, which is organised into a single copy of a TBP-like fold. The domain contributes residues to the 8-oxoguanine binding pocket.
Peroxin-3	Peroxin-3. Peroxin-3 is a peroxisomal protein. It is thought to be involve in membrane vesicle assembly prior to the translocation of matrix proteins.
MADF_DNA_bdg	Alcohol dehydrogenase transcription factor Myb/SANT-like. The myb/SANT-like domain in Adf-1 (MADF) is an approximately 80-amino-acid module that directs sequence specific DNA binding to a site consisting of multiple tri-nucleotide repeats. The MADF domain is found in one or more copies in eukaryotic and viral proteins and is often associated with the BESS domain. It is likely that the MADF domain is more closely related to the myb/SANT domain than it is to other HTH domains.
Glyco_hydro_18	Glycosyl hydrolases family 18. 
DUF674	Protein of unknown function (DUF674). This family is found in Arabidopsis thaliana and contains several uncharacterised proteins.
Ribosomal_S3Ae	Ribosomal S3Ae family. 
F_actin_cap_B	F-actin capping protein, beta subunit. 
AzlC	AzlC protein. 
FEZ	FEZ-like protein. This is a family of eukaryotic proteins thought to be involved in axonal outgrowth and fasciculation. The N-terminal regions of these sequences are less conserved than the C-terminal regions, and are highly acidic. The Caenorhabditis elegans homolog, UNC-76, may play structural and signalling roles in the control of axonal extension and adhesion (particularly in the presence of adjacent neuronal cells) and these roles have also been postulated for other FEZ family proteins. Certain homologs have been definitively found to interact with the N-terminal variable region (V1) of PKC-zeta, and this interaction causes cytoplasmic translocation of the FEZ family protein in mammalian neuronal cells. The C-terminal region probably participates in the association with the regulatory domain of PKC-zeta. The members of this family are predicted to form coiled-coil structures, which may interact with members of the RhoA family of signalling proteins, but are not thought to contain other characteristic protein motifs. Certain members of this family are expressed almost exclusively in the brain, whereas others (such as FEZ2) are expressed in other tissues, and are thought to perform similar but unknown functions in these tissues.
Cas_Cas5d	CRISPR-associated protein (Cas_Cas5d). CRISPR is a term for Clustered, Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. A number of protein families appear only in association with these repeats and are designated Cas (CRISPR-Associated) proteins. This small Cas family is represented by CT1134 of Chlorobium tepidum.
NAD_binding_1	Oxidoreductase NAD-binding domain. Xanthine dehydrogenases, that also bind FAD/NAD, have essentially no similarity.
DUF605	Vta1 like. Vta1 (VPS20-associated protein 1) is a positive regulator of Vps4. Vps4 is an ATPase that is required in the multivesicular body (MVB) sorting pathway to dissociate the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT). Vta1 promotes correct assembly of Vps4 and stimulates its ATPase activity through its conserved Vta1/SBP1/LIP5 region.
DUF1163	Protein of unknown function (DUF1163). This family represents the C-terminus of hypothetical Arabidopsis thaliana proteins of unknown function.
Myco_19_kDa	Mycobacterium 19 kDa lipoprotein antigen. Most of the antigens of Mycobacterium leprae and M. tuberculosis that have been identified are members of stress protein families, which are highly conserved throughout many diverse species. Of the M. leprae and M. tuberculosis antigens identified by monoclonal antibodies, all except the 18-kDa M. leprae antigen and the 19-kDa M. tuberculosis antigen are strongly cross-reactive between these two species and are coded within very similar genes.
potato_inhibit	Potato inhibitor I family. 
LCD1	DNA damage checkpoint protein. This is a family of proteins which regulate checkpoint kinases. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe this protein is called Rad26 and in Saccharomyces cerevisiae it is called LCD1.
DUF2296	Predicted integral membrane metal-binding protein (DUF2296). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial and eukaryotic metal-binding proteins, has no known function.
DUF1568	Protein of unknown function (DUF1568). This entry represents a conserved sequence region found in hypothetical proteins from a wide range of bacteria. Shewenella oneidensis contains multiple members.
XET_C	Xyloglucan endo-transglycosylase (XET) C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 60 residues) of plant xyloglucan endo-transglycosylase (XET). Xyloglucan is the predominant hemicellulose in the cell walls of most dicotyledons. With cellulose, it forms a network that strengthens the cell wall. XET catalyses the splitting of xyloglucan chains and the linking of the newly generated reducing end to the non-reducing end of another xyloglucan chain, thereby loosening the cell wall. Note that all family members contain the pfam00722 domain.
Rsm22	Mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit Rsm22. Rsm22 has been identified as a mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit and is a methyltransferase. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Rsm22 is tandemly fused to Cox11 (a factor required for copper insertion into cytochrome oxidase) and the two proteins are proteolytically cleaved after import into the mitochondria.
ADH_N	Alcohol dehydrogenase GroES-like domain. This is the catalytic domain of alcohol dehydrogenases. Many of them contain an inserted zinc binding domain. This domain has a GroES-like structure.
FliX	Class II flagellar assembly regulator. The FliX protein is possibly a transient component of the flagellum that is required for the assembly process. FliX may contribute to the targeting or assembly of the P- and L-ring protein monomers at the cell pole. The family carries a potential N-terminal signal sequence and at least one transmembrane domain indicating that it might function either in or in association with the cell membrane.
Gasdermin	Gasdermin family. The precise function of this protein is unknown. A deletion/insertion mutation is associated with an autosomal dominant non-syndromic hearing impairment form. In addition, this protein has also been found to contribute to acquired etoposide resistance in melanoma cells. This family also includes the gasdermin protein
DUF2351	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2351). Members of this family of proteins have no known function.
Glyco_hydro_31	Glycosyl hydrolases family 31. Glycosyl hydrolases are key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism. Family 31 comprises of enzymes that are, or similar to, alpha- galactosidases.
Glyco_hydro_20	Glycosyl hydrolase family 20, catalytic domain. This domain has a TIM barrel fold.
FecR	FecR protein. FecR is involved in regulation of iron dicitrate transport. In the absence of citrate FecR inactivates FecI. FecR is probably a sensor that recognises iron dicitrate in the periplasm.
IF3_C	Translation initiation factor IF-3, C-terminal domain. 
Rib_5-P_isom_A	Ribose 5-phosphate isomerase A (phosphoriboisomerase A). This family consists of several ribose 5-phosphate isomerase A or phosphoriboisomerase A (EC:5.3.1.6) from bacteria, eukaryotes and archaea.
DCP2	Dcp2, box A domain. This domain is always found to the amino terminal side of pfam00293. This domain is specific to mRNA decapping protein 2 and this region has been termed Box A. Removal of the cap structure is catalysed by the Dcp1-Dcp2 complex.
TrkH	Cation transport protein. This family consists of various cation transport proteins (Trk) and V-type sodium ATP synthase subunit J or translocating ATPase J EC:3.6.1.34. These proteins are involved in active sodium up-take utilising ATP in the process. TrkH a member of the family from Escherichia coli is a hydrophobic membrane protein and determines the specificity and kinetics of cation transport by the TrK system in Escherichia coli.
Myb_DNA-binding	Myb-like DNA-binding domain. This family contains the DNA binding domains from Myb proteins, as well as the SANT domain family.
SRF-TF	SRF-type transcription factor (DNA-binding and dimerisation domain). 
LigB	Catalytic LigB subunit of aromatic ring-opening dioxygenase. 
Ribonuc_P_40	Ribonuclease P 40kDa (Rpp40) subunit. The tRNA processing enzyme ribonuclease P (RNase P) consists of an RNA molecule and at least eight protein subunits. Subunits hpop1, Rpp21, Rpp29, Rpp30, Rpp38, and Rpp40 (this entry) are involved in extensive, but weak, protein-protein interactions in the holoenzyme complex.
ERG4_ERG24	Ergosterol biosynthesis ERG4/ERG24 family. 
Papilloma_E5A	Papillomavirus E5A protein. Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are epitheliotropic viruses, and their life cycle is intimately linked to the stratification and differentiation state of the host epithelial tissues. The kinetics of E5a protein expression during the complete viral life cycle has been studied and the highest level was found to be coincidental with the onset of virion morphogenesis.
AHS2	Allophanate hydrolase subunit 2. This domain forms the second subunit of allophanate hydrolase. In yeast urea amidolyase this domain is found between pfam00289 and pfam00364.
LMP	LMP repeated region. This family consists of a repeated sequence element found in the LMP group of surface-located membrane proteins of Mycoplasma hominis. The the number of repeats in the protein affects the tendency of cells to spontaneously aggregate. Agglutination may be an important factor in colonisation. Non-agglutinating microorganisms might easily be distributed whereas aggregation might provide a better chance to avoid an antibody response since some of the epitopes may be buried.
Rep_fac-A_3	Replication factor A protein 3. Replication factor A is involved in eukaryotic DNA replication, recombination and repair.
3HBOH	3HB-oligomer hydrolase (3HBOH). D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyrate oligomer hydrolase (also known as 3HB-oligomer hydrolase) functions in the degradation of poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB). It catalyses the hydrolysis of D(-)-3-hydroxybutyrate oligomers (3HB-oligomers) into 3HB-monomers.
PPV_E1_C	Papillomavirus helicase. This protein is a DNA helicase that is required for initiation of viral DNA replication. This protein forms a complex with the E2 protein pfam00508.
Lipoxygenase	Lipoxygenase. 
Ribosomal_S6	Ribosomal protein S6. 
DUF541	Protein of unknown function (DUF541). Members of this family have so far been found in bacteria and mouse Swiss-Prot or TrEMBL entries. However possible family members have also been identified in translated rat (Genbank:AW144450) and human (Genbank:AI478629) ESTs. A mouse family member has been named SIMPL (signalling molecule that associates with mouse pelle-like kinase). SIMPL appears to facilitate and/or regulate complex formation between IRAK/mPLK (IL-1 receptor-associated kinase) and IKK (inhibitor of kappa-B kinase) containing complexes, and thus regulate NF-kappa-B activity. Separate experiments demonstrate that a mouse family member (named LaXp180) binds the Listeria monocytogenes surface protein ActA, which is a virulence factor that induces actin polymerisation. It may also bind stathmin, a protein involved in signal transduction and in the regulation of microtubule dynamics. In bacteria its function is unknown, but it is thought to be located in the periplasm or outer membrane.
DSPc	Dual specificity phosphatase, catalytic domain. Ser/Thr and Tyr protein phosphatases. The enzyme's tertiary fold is highly similar to that of tyrosine-specific phosphatases, except for a "recognition" region.
RTBV_P46	Rice tungro bacilliform virus P46 protein. This family consists of several Rice tungro bacilliform virus P46 proteins. The function of this family is unknown.
COX17	Cytochrome C oxidase copper chaperone (COX17). Cox17 is essential for the assembly of functional cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) and for delivery of copper ions to the mitochondrion for insertion into the enzyme in yeast. The structure of Cox17 shows the protein to have an unstructured N-terminal region followed by two helices and several unstructured C-terminal residues. The Cu(I) binding site has been modelled as two-coordinate with ligation by conserved residues Cys23 and Cys26.
FNIP	FNIP Repeat. This repeat is approximately 22 residues long and is only found in Dictyostelium discoideum. It appears to be related to pfam00560 (personal obs:C Yeats). The alignment consists of two tandem repeats. It is termed the FNIP repeat after the pattern of conserved residues.
NEP	Uncharacterised conserved protein. This is the N-terminal 80 residues of a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. It contains a characteristic NEP sequence motif. The function is not known.
SIS	SIS domain. SIS (Sugar ISomerase) domains are found in many phosphosugar isomerases and phosphosugar binding proteins. SIS domains are also found in proteins that regulate the expression of genes involved in synthesis of phosphosugars. Presumably the SIS domains bind to the end-product of the pathway.
Ribosomal_L14	Ribosomal protein L14p/L23e. 
Cellulase	Cellulase (glycosyl hydrolase family 5). 
BACK	BTB And C-terminal Kelch. This domain is found associated with pfam00651 and pfam01344. The BACK domain is found juxtaposed to the BTB domain; they are separated by as little as two residues. This family appears to be closely related to the BTB domain (Finn RD, personal observation).
SUR7	SUR7 protein. This family consists of several fungal-specific SUR7 proteins. Its activity regulates expression of RVS161, a homologue of human endophilin, suggesting a function for both in endocytosis. The protein carries four transmembrane domains and is thus likely to act as an anchoring protein for the eisosome to the plasma membrane. Eisosomes are the immobile protein complexes, that include the proteins Pil1 and Lsp1, which co-localise with sites of protein and lipid endocytosis at the plasma membrane. SUR7 protein may play a role in sporulation.
Cystatin	Cystatin domain. Very diverse family. Attempts to define separate sub-families failed. Typically, either the N-terminal or C-terminal end is very divergent. But splitting into two domains would make very short families. pfam00666 are related to this family but have not been included.
Peptidase_M66	Peptidase M66. This family of metallopeptidases contains StcE, a virulence factor found in Shiga toxigenic Escherichia coli organisms. StcE peptidase cleaves C1 esterase inhibitor.
SecB	Preprotein translocase subunit SecB. This family consists of preprotein translocase subunit SecB. SecB is required for the normal export of envelope proteins out of the cell cytoplasm.
PDT	Prephenate dehydratase. This protein is involved in Phenylalanine biosynthesis. This protein catalyses the decarboxylation of prephenate to phenylpyruvate.
Trp_repressor	Trp repressor protein. This protein binds to tryptophan and represses transcription of the Trp operon.
LacY_symp	LacY proton/sugar symporter. This family is closely related to the sugar transporter family.
DUF962	Protein of unknown function (DUF962). This family consists of several eukaryotic and prokaryotic proteins of unknown function. The yeast protein YGL010W has been found to be non-essential for cell growth.
7tm_1	7 transmembrane receptor (rhodopsin family). This family contains, amongst other G-protein-coupled receptors (GCPRs), members of the opsin family, which have been considered to be typical members of the rhodopsin superfamily. They share several motifs, mainly the seven transmembrane helices, GCPRs of the rhodopsin superfamily. All opsins bind a chromophore, such as 11-cis-retinal. The function of most opsins other than the photoisomerases is split into two steps: light absorption and G-protein activation. Photoisomerases, on the other hand, are not coupled to G-proteins - they are thought to generate and supply the chromophore that is used by visual opsins.
HMG_box	HMG (high mobility group) box. 
Ribosomal_S8	Ribosomal protein S8. 
PPI_Ypi1	Protein phosphatase inhibitor. These proteins include Ypi1,, a novel Saccharomyces cerevisiae type 1 protein phosphatase inhibitor and ppp1r11/hcgv, annotated as having protein phosphatase inhibitor activity.
BAF1_ABF1	BAF1 / ABF1 chromatin reorganising factor. ABF1 is a sequence-specific DNA binding protein involved in transcription activation, gene silencing and initiation of DNA replication. ABF1 is known to remodel chromatin, and it is proposed that it mediates its effects on transcription and gene expression by modifying local chromatin architecture. These functions require a conserved stretch of 20 amino acids in the C-terminal region of ABF1 (amino acids 639 to 662 Saccharomyces cerevisiae ). The N-terminal two thirds of the protein are necessary for DNA binding, and the N-terminus (amino acids 9 to 91 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae) is thought to contain a novel zinc-finger motif which may stabilise the protein structure.
ATG13	Autophagy-related protein 13. Members of this family of phosphoproteins are involved in cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt), and more specifically in Cvt vesicle formation. They are probably involved in the switching machinery regulating the conversion between the Cvt pathway and autophagy. Finally, ATG13 is also required for glycogen storage.
Proteasome_A_N	Proteasome subunit A N-terminal signature. This domain is conserved in the A subunits of the proteasome complex proteins.
Gag_p12	Gag polyprotein, inner coat protein p12. The retroviral p12 is a virion structural protein. p12 is proline rich. The function carried out by p12 in assembly and replication is unknown. p12 is associated with pathogenicity of the virus.
IMS	impB/mucB/samB family. These proteins are involved in UV protection (Swiss-Prot).
tRNA-synt_1c_C	tRNA synthetases class I (E and Q), anti-codon binding domain. Other tRNA synthetase sub-families are too dissimilar to be included. This family includes only glutamyl and glutaminyl tRNA synthetases. In some organisms, a single glutamyl-tRNA synthetase aminoacylates both tRNA(Glu) and tRNA(Gln).
HemY_N	HemY protein N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminus (approximately 150 residues) of bacterial HemY porphyrin biosynthesis proteins. This is a membrane protein involved in a late step of protoheme IX synthesis.
DUF945	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF945). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
EB1_binding	EB-1 Binding Domain. This region at the C-terminus of the APC proteins binds the microtubule-associating protein EB-1. At the C-terminus of the alignment is also a pfam00595 binding domain. A short motif in the middle of the region appears to be found in the APC2 proteins.
DrsE	DsrE/DsrF-like family. DsrE is a small soluble protein involved in intracellular sulfur reduction. This family also includes DsrF.
UPF0005	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0005. The Pfam entry finds members not in the Prosite definition.
PAXNEB	PAXNEB protein. PAXNEB or PAX6 neighbour is found in several eukaryotic organisms. PAXNED is an RNA polymerase II Elongator protein subunit. It is part of the HAP subcomplex of Elongator, which is a six-subunit component of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme. The HAP subcomplex is required for Elongator structural integrity and histone acetyltransferase activity.
DUF1342	Protein of unknown function (DUF1342). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 250 residues in length. Members of this family are often known as YacF after the Escherichia coli protein. The function of this family is unknown.
Lip_A_acyltrans	Bacterial lipid A biosynthesis acyltransferase. 
Allexi_40kDa	Allexivirus 40kDa protein. 
KNOX1	KNOX1 domain. The MEINOX region is comprised of two domains, KNOX1 and KNOX2. KNOX1 plays a role in suppressing target gene expression. KNOX2, essential for function, is thought to be necessary for homo-dimerisation.
Chorion_3	Chorion family 3. This family consists of several Drosophila chorion proteins S36 and S38. The chorion genes of Drosophila are amplified in response to developmental signals in the follicle cells of the ovary.
DUF1216	Protein of unknown function (DUF1216). This family represents a conserved region, within Arabidopsis thaliana proteins, of unknown function. Family members sometimes contain more than one copy.It has been reported that this domain will be found in other Brassicaceae.
Choline_kinase	Choline/ethanolamine kinase. Choline kinase catalyses the committed step in the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine by the CDP-choline pathway. This alignment covers the protein kinase portion of the protein. The divergence of this family makes it very difficult to create a model that specifically predicts choline/ethanolamine kinases only.
BATS	Biotin and Thiamin Synthesis associated domain. Biotin synthase (BioB), EC:2.8.1.6, catalyses the last step of the biotin biosynthetic pathway. The reaction consists in the introduction of a sulphur atom into dethiobiotin. BioB functions as a homodimer. Thiamin synthesis if a complex process involving at least six gene products (ThiFSGH, ThiI and ThiJ). Two of the proteins required for the biosynthesis of the thiazole moiety of thiamine (vitamin B(1)) are ThiG and ThiH (this family) and form a heterodimer. Both of these reactions are thought of involve the binding of co-factors, and both function as dimers. This domain therefore may be involved in co-factor binding or dimerisation (Finn, RD personal observation).
tRNA-Thr_ED	Archaea-specific editing domain of threonyl-tRNA synthetase. Archaea-specific editing domain of threonyl-tRNA synthetase, with marked structural similarity to D-amino acids deacylases found in eubacteria and eukaryotes. This domain can bind D-amino acids, and ensures high fidelity during translation. It is especially responsible for removing incorrectly attached serine from tRNA-Thr. The domain forms a fold that can be be defined as two layers of beta-sheets (a three-stranded sheet and a five-stranded sheet), with two alpha-helices located adjacent to the five-stranded sheet.
Mpv17_PMP22	Mpv17 / PMP22 family. The 22-kDa peroxisomal membrane protein (PMP22) is a major component of peroxisomal membranes. PMP22 seems to be involved in pore forming activity and may contribute to the unspecific permeability of the organelle membrane. PMP22 is synthesised on free cytosolic ribosomes and then directed to the peroxisome membrane by specific targeting information. Mpv17 is a closely related peroxisomal protein. In mouse, the Mpv17 protein is involved in the development of early-onset glomerulosclerosis. More recently a homolog of Mpv17 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been been found to be an integral membrane protein of the inner mitochondrial membrane where it has been proposed to have a role in ethanol metabolism and tolerance during heat-shock. Defects in MPV17 is associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDDS) and Navajo neurohepatopathy (NNH). MDDS is a clinically heterogeneous group of disorders characterised by a reduction in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number. Primary mtDNA depletion is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and may affect single organs, typically muscle or liver, or multiple tissues. Individuals with the hepatocerebral form of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome have early progressive liver failure and neurologic abnormalities, hypoglycemia, and increased lactate in body fluids. NNH is an autosomal recessive disease that is prevalent among Navajo children in the South Western states of America. The major clinical features are hepatopathy, peripheral neuropathy, corneal anesthesia and scarring, acral mutilation, cerebral leukoencephalopathy, failure to thrive, and recurrent metabolic acidosis with intercurrent infections. Infantile, childhood, and classic forms of NNH have been described. Mitochondrial DNA depletion was detected in the livers of patients, suggesting a primary defect in mtDNA maintenance.
Auxin_BP	Auxin binding protein. 
DUF684	Protein of unknown function (DUF684). This family contains several uncharacterised proteins from Caenorhabditis elegans.
DUF1814	Domain of unknown function (DUF1814). This large family of proteins are largely uncharacterised. Some are annotated as abortive infective proteins but support for this annotation could not be found.
NBP1	Fungal Nap binding protein NBP1. NBP1 is a nuclear protein which has been shown in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to be essential for the G2/M transition of the cell cycle.
Ribosomal_S25	S25 ribosomal protein. 
DUF1336	Protein of unknown function (DUF1336). This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 250 residues) of a number of hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function.
Transposase_mut	Transposase, Mutator family. 
COPI_assoc	COPI associated protein. Proteins in this family colocalise with COPI vesicle coat proteins.
zf-A20	A20-like zinc finger. A20- (an inhibitor of cell death)-like zinc fingers. The zinc finger mediates self-association in A20. These fingers also mediate IL-1-induced NF-kappa B activation.
Arfaptin	Arfaptin-like domain. Arfaptin interacts with ARF1, a small GTPase involved in vesicle budding at the Golgi complex and immature secretory granules. The structure of arfaptin shows that upon binding to a small GTPase, arfaptin forms a an elongated, crescent-shaped dimer of three-helix coiled-coils. The N-terminal region of ICA69 is similar to arfaptin.
MRP-L28	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L28. Members of this family are components of the mitochondrial large ribosomal subunit. Mature mitochondrial ribosomes consist of a small (37S) and a large (54S) subunit. The 37S subunit contains at least 33 different proteins and 1 molecule of RNA (15S). The 54S subunit contains at least 45 different proteins and 1 molecule of RNA (21S).
RF-1	RF-1 domain. This domain is found in peptide chain release factors such as RF-1 and RF-2, and a number of smaller proteins of unknown function. This domain contains the peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase activity. The domain contains a highly conserved motif GGQ, where the glutamine is thought to coordinate the water that mediates the hydrolysis.
GDPD	Glycerophosphoryl diester phosphodiesterase family. Escherichia coli has two sequence related isozymes of glycerophosphoryl diester phosphodiesterase (GDPD) - periplasmic and cytosolic. This family also includes agrocinopine synthase, the similarity to GDPD has been noted. This family appears to have weak but not significant matches to mammalian phospholipase C pfam00388, which suggests that this family may adopt a TIM barrel fold.
DUF205	Domain of unknown function DUF. This family consists of hypothetical transmembrane proteins none of which have any known function, the aligned region is around 200 amino acids long.
PsbY	Photosystem II protein Y (PsbY). This family consists of several bacterial and plant photosystem II protein Y (PsbY) sequences. PsbY is a manganese-binding protein that has an L-arginine metabolising enzyme activity.
RNA_pol_Rpb1_4	RNA polymerase Rpb1, domain 4. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain, domain 4, represents the funnel domain. The funnel contain the binding site for some elongation factors.
Cortex-I_coil	Cortexillin I, coiled coil. Members of this family are predominantly found in the actin-bundling protein Cortexillin I from Dictyostelium discoideum. They adopt a structure consisting of an 18-heptad-repeat alpha-helical coiled-coil, and are a prerequisite for the assembly of Cortexillin I.
Viral_helicase1	Viral (Superfamily 1) RNA helicase. Helicase activity for this family has been demonstrated and NTPase activity. This helicase has multiple roles at different stages of viral RNA replication, as dissected by mutational analysis.
Senescence	Senescence-associated protein. This family contains a number of plant senescence-associated proteins of approximately 450 residues in length. In Hemerocallis, petals have a genetically based program that leads to senescence and cell death approximately 24 hours after the, flower opens, and it is believed that senescence proteins produced around that time have a role in this program.
Ribosomal_L30_N	Ribosomal L30 N-terminal domain. This presumed domain is found at the N-terminus of Ribosomal L30 proteins and has been termed RL30NT or NUC018.
FYRN	F/Y-rich N-terminus. This region is normally found in the trithorax/ALL1 family proteins. It is similar to SMART:SM00541.
Shikimate_dh_N	Shikimate dehydrogenase substrate binding domain. This domain is the substrate binding domain of shikimate dehydrogenase.
ICln_channel	Nucleotide-sensitive chloride conductance regulator (ICln). 
RimM	RimM N-terminal domain. The RimM protein is essential for efficient processing of 16S rRNA. The RimM protein was shown to have affinity for free ribosomal 30S subunits but not for 30S subunits in the 70S ribosomes. This N-terminal domain is found associated with a PRC-barrel domain.
MutS_IV	MutS family domain IV. This domain is found in proteins of the MutS family (DNA mismatch repair proteins) and is found associated with pfam01624, pfam05188, pfam05192 and pfam00488. The mutS family of proteins is named after the Salmonella typhimurium MutS protein involved in mismatch repair; other members of the family included the eukaryotic MSH 1,2,3, 4,5 and 6 proteins. These have various roles in DNA repair and recombination. Human MSH has been implicated in non-polyposis colorectal carcinoma (HNPCC) and is a mismatch binding protein. The aligned region corresponds in part with globular domain IV, which is involved in DNA binding, in Thermus aquaticus MutS.
PCRF	PCRF domain. This domain is found in peptide chain release factors.
Ribosomal_L11	Ribosomal protein L11, RNA binding domain. 
LUC7	LUC7 N_terminus. This family contains the N terminal region of several LUC7 protein homologues and only contains eukaryotic proteins. LUC7 has been shown to be a U1 snRNA associated protein with a role in splice site recognition. The family also contains human and mouse LUC7 like (LUC7L) proteins and human cisplatin resistance-associated overexpressed protein (CROP).
SGS	SGS domain. This domain was thought to be unique to the SGT1-like proteins, but is also found in calcyclin binding proteins.
FA_desaturase	Fatty acid desaturase. 
Auxin_repressed	Dormancy/auxin associated protein. This family contains several plant dormancy-associated and auxin-repressed proteins the function of which are poorly understood.
Morbilli_P	Morbillivirus RNA polymerase alpha subunit. This family consists of morbillivirus RNA polymerase alpha subunit and non structural protein V. The P gene of morbillivirus is cotranscriptionally edited leading to the N-terminal half of the P protein being appended to the C-terminal of the P protein, and a cysteine rich region in the V fusion protein which has been shown to bind zinc [see Virology 3rd edition, volume 1, chapter 40, pages 1182-1184]. Morbilliviruses are negative strand ssRNA viruses and a part of the paramyxoviridae family, members include measles virus and phocine distemper virus.
Adap_comp_sub	Adaptor complexes medium subunit family. This family also contains members which are coatomer subunits.
DUF1395	Protein of unknown function (DUF1395). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of around 250 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
YMF19	Plant ATP synthase F0. This family corresponds to subunit 8 (YMF19) of the F0 complex of plant and algae mitochondrial F-ATPases (EC:3.6.1.34).
MarC	MarC family integral membrane protein. Integral membrane protein family that includes the antibiotic resistance protein MarC. These proteins may be transporters.
Gly_transf_sug	Glycosyltransferase sugar-binding region containing DXD motif. The DXD motif is a short conserved motif found in many families of glycosyltransferases, which add a range of different sugars to other sugars, phosphates and proteins. DXD-containing glycosyltransferases all use nucleoside diphosphate sugars as donors and require divalent cations, usually manganese. The DXD motif is expected to play a carbohydrate binding role in sugar-nucleoside diphosphate and manganese dependent glycosyltransferases.
Tubulin_C	Tubulin/FtsZ family, C-terminal domain. This family includes the tubulin alpha, beta and gamma chains, as well as the bacterial FtsZ family of proteins. Members of this family are involved in polymer formation. FtsZ is the polymer-forming protein of bacterial cell division. It is part of a ring in the middle of the dividing cell that is required for constriction of cell membrane and cell envelope to yield two daughter cells. FtsZ and tubulin are GTPases. FtsZ can polymerise into tubes, sheets, and rings in vitro and is ubiquitous in eubacteria and archaea. Tubulin is the major component of microtubules.
YdjC	YdjC-like protein. Family of YdjC-like proteins. This region is possibly involved in the the cleavage of cellobiose-phosphate.
CbiA	CobQ/CobB/MinD/ParA nucleotide binding domain. This family consists of various cobyrinic acid a,c-diamide synthases. These include CbiA and CbiP from S.typhimurium, and CobQ from R. capsulatus. These amidases catalyse amidations to various side chains of hydrogenobyrinic acid or cobyrinic acid a,c-diamide in the biosynthesis of cobalamin (vitamin B12) from uroporphyrinogen III. Vitamin B12 is an important cofactor and an essential nutrient for many plants and animals and is primarily produced by bacteria. The family also contains dethiobiotin synthetases as well as the plasmid partitioning proteins of the MinD/ParA family.
OKR_DC_1_C	Orn/Lys/Arg decarboxylase, C-terminal domain. 
dsDNA_bind	Double-stranded DNA-binding domain. This domain is believed to bind double-stranded DNA of 20 bases length.
Pox_A6	Poxvirus A6 protein. 
DUF106	Integral membrane protein DUF106. This archaebacterial protein family has no known function. Members are predicted to be integral membrane proteins.
Palm_thioest	Palmitoyl protein thioesterase. 
GUCT	GUCT (NUC152) domain. This is the C terminal domain found in the RNA helicase II / Gu protein family.
RAP	RAP domain. This domain is found in various eukaryotic species, particularly in apicomplexans such as Plasmodium falciparum, where it is found in proteins that are important in various parasite-host cell interactions. It is thought to be an RNA-binding domain.
MP	Viral movement protein (MP). This family includes a variety of movement proteins (MP)s. The MP is necessary for the initial cell-to-cell movement during the early stages of a viral infection. This movement is active, and it is known that the MP interacts with the plasmodesmata and possesses the ability to bind to RNA to achieve its role. This family also includes consists of virus movement proteins from the caulimovirus family. It has been suggested in cauliflower mosaic virus that these proteins mediated viral movement by modifying plasmodesmata and forming tubules in the channel that can accommodate the virus particles and references therein. The family contains a conserved DXR motif that is probably functionally important.
CinA	Competence-damaged protein. CinA is the first gene in the competence-inducible (cin) operon, and is thought to be specifically required at some stage in the process of transformation. This Pfam family consists of putative competence-damaged proteins from the cin operon.
NnrU	NnrU protein. This family consists of several plant and bacterial NnrU proteins. NnrU is thought to be involved in the reduction of nitric oxide. The exact function of NnrU is unclear. It is thought however that NnrU and perhaps NnrT are required for expression of both nirK and nor.
MIF4G	MIF4G domain. MIF4G is named after Middle domain of eukaryotic initiation factor 4G (eIF4G). Also occurs in NMD2p and CBP80. The domain is rich in alpha-helices and may contain multiple alpha-helical repeats. In eIF4G, this domain binds eIF4A, eIF3, RNA and DNA.
DGC	DGC domain. This domain appears to be a zinc binding domain from the conservation of four potential chelating cysteines. The domain is named after a conserved central motif. The function of this domain is unknown.
DUF621	Protein of unknown function (DUF621). Family of uncharacterised proteins. Some are annotated as having possible G-protein-coupled receptor-like activity.
Kelch_1	Kelch motif. The kelch motif was initially discovered in Kelch. In this protein there are six copies of the motif. It has been shown that the Drosophila ring canal kelch protein is related to Galactose Oxidase for which a structure has been solved. The kelch motif forms a beta sheet. Several of these sheets associate to form a beta propeller structure as found in pfam00064, pfam00400 and pfam00415.
PI3Ka	Phosphoinositide 3-kinase family, accessory domain (PIK domain). PIK domain is conserved in all PI3 and PI4-kinases. Its role is unclear but it has been suggested to be involved in substrate presentation.
zf-B_box	B-box zinc finger. 
AMA-1	Apical membrane antigen 1. Apical membrane antigen 1 (AMA-1) is a Plasmodium asexual blood-stage antigen. It has been suggested that positive selection operates on the AMA-1 gene in regions coding for antigenic sites.
7TM_GPCR_Sra	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Sra. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Sra is part of the Sra superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
Peptidase_S24	Peptidase S24-like. 
CDC45	CDC45-like protein. CDC45 is an essential gene required for initiation of DNA replication in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, forming a complex with MCM5/CDC46. Homologues of CDC45 have been identified in human, mouse and smut fungus among others.
TIM	Triosephosphate isomerase. 
Aminotran_1_2	Aminotransferase class I and II. 
Nol1_Nop2_Fmu	NOL1/NOP2/sun family. 
EAP30	EAP30/Vps36 family. This family includes EAP30 as well as the Vps36 protein. Vps36 is involved in Golgi to endosome trafficking. EAP30 is a subunit of the ELL complex. The ELL is an 80-kDa RNA polymerase II transcription factor. ELL interacts with three other proteins to form the complex known as ELL complex. The ELL complex is capable of increasing that catalytic rate of transcription elongation, but is unable to repress initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II as is the case of ELL. EAP30 is thought to lead to the derepression of ELL's transcriptional inhibitory activity.
CopD	Copper resistance protein D. Copper sequestering activity displayed by some bacteria is determined by copper-binding protein products of the copper resistance operon (cop). CopD, together with CopC, perform copper uptake into the cytoplasm.
GcrA	GcrA cell cycle regulator. GcrA is a master cell cycle regulator that, together with CtrA (see pfam00072 and pfam00486), is involved in controlling cell cycle progression and asymmetric polar morphogenesis. During this process, there are temporal and spatial variations in the concentrations of GcrA and CtrA. The variation in concentration produces time and space dependent transcriptional regulation of modular functions that implement cell-cycle processes. More specifically, GcrA acts as an activator of components of the replisome and the segregation machinery.
COX6B	Cytochrome oxidase c subunit VIb. Cytochrome c oxidase, a 13 sub-unit complex, EC:1.9.3.1 is the terminal oxidase in the mitochondrial electron transport chain. This family is composed of the potentially heme-binding subunit IVb of the oxidase.
DinB	DinB family. DNA damage-inducible (din) genes in Bacillus subtilis are coordinately regulated and together compose a global regulatory network that has been termed the SOS-like or SOB regulon. This family includes DinB from B. subtilis.
Leuk-A4-hydro_C	Leukotriene A4 hydrolase, C-terminal. Members of this family adopt a structure consisting of two layers of parallel alpha-helices, five in the inner layer and four in the outer, arranged in an antiparallel manner, with perpendicular loops containing short helical segments on top. They are required for the formation of a deep cleft harbouring the catalytic Zn2+ site in Leukotriene A4 hydrolase.
Gly_acyl_tr_C	Aralkyl acyl-CoA:amino acid N-acyltransferase, C-terminal region. This family features the C-terminal region of several mammalian specific aralkyl acyl-CoA:amino acid N-acyltransferase (glycine N-acyltransferase) proteins EC:2.3.1.13.
DUF1305	Protein of unknown function (DUF1305). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 300 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown although one member from Salmonella enterica is thought to be involved in virulence.
Pox_VERT_large	Poxvirus early transcription factor (VETF), large subunit. The poxvirus early transcription factor (VETF), in addition to the viral RNA polymerase, is required for efficient transcription of early genes in vitro. VETF is a heterodimeric protein that binds specifically to early gene promoters. The heterodimer is comprised of an 82 kDa (this family) subunit and a 70 kDa subunit.
DUF2301	Uncharacterized integral membrane protein (DUF2301). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
AdoHcyase	S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase. 
U3_snoRNA_C	U3 small nucleolar RNA C terminal. U3 snoRNA is ubiquitous in eukaryotes and is required for nucleolar processing of pre-18S ribosomal RNA. It is a component of the ribosomal small subunit (SSU) processome. This domain is found C terminal to the WD40 repeat (pfam00400).
Cu-oxidase	Multicopper oxidase. Many of the proteins in this family contain multiple similar copies of this plastocyanin-like domain.
Corona_RPol_N	Coronavirus RPol N-terminus. This family covers the N-terminal region of the coronavirus RNA-directed RNA Polymerase.
Asn_synthase	Asparagine synthase. This family is always found associated with pfam00310. Members of this family catalyse the conversion of aspartate to asparagine.
MerR-DNA-bind	MerR, DNA binding. Members of this family of DNA-binding domains are predominantly found in the prokaryotic transcriptional regulator MerR. They adopt a structure consisting of a core of three alpha helices, with an architecture that is similar to that of the 'winged helix' fold.
MAD	Mitotic checkpoint protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic mitotic checkpoint (Mitotic arrest deficient or MAD) proteins. The mitotic spindle checkpoint monitors proper attachment of the bipolar spindle to the kinetochores of aligned sister chromatids and causes a cell cycle arrest in prometaphase when failures occur. Multiple components of the mitotic spindle checkpoint have been identified in yeast and higher eukaryotes. In S.cerevisiae, the existence of a Mad1-dependent complex containing Mad2, Mad3, Bub3 and Cdc20 has been demonstrated.
MtN3_slv	MtN3/saliva family. This family includes proteins such as drosophila saliva, MtN3 involved in root nodule development and a protein involved in activation and expression of recombination activation genes (RAGs). Although the molecular function of these proteins is unknown, they are almost certainly transmembrane proteins. This family contains a region of two transmembrane helices that is found in two copies in most members of the family.
Herpes_capsid	Gammaherpesvirus capsid protein. This family consists of several Gammaherpesvirus capsid proteins. The exact function of this family is unknown.
Rubella_E2	Rubella membrane glycoprotein E2. Rubella virus (RV), the sole member of the genus Rubivirus within the family Togaviridae, is a small enveloped, positive strand RNA virus. The nucleocapsid consists of 40S genomic RNA and a single species of capsid protein which is enveloped within a host-derived lipid bilayer containing two viral glycoproteins, E1 (58 kDa) and E2 (42-46 kDa). In virus infected cells, RV matures by budding either at the plasma membrane, or at the internal membranes depending on the cell type and enters adjacent uninfected cells by a membrane fusion process in the endosome, directed by E1-E2 heterodimers. The heterodimer formation is crucial for E1 transport out of the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi and plasma membrane. In RV E1, a cysteine at position 82 is crucial for the E1-E2 heterodimer formation and cell surface expression of the two proteins.
UPF0020	Putative RNA methylase family UPF0020. This domain is probably a methylase. It is associated with the THUMP domain that also occurs with RNA modification domains.
COX5B	Cytochrome c oxidase subunit Vb. 
API5	Apoptosis inhibitory protein 5 (API5). This family consists of apoptosis inhibitory protein 5 (API5) sequences from several organisms. Apoptosis or programmed cell death is a physiological form of cell death that occurs in embryonic development and organ formation. It is characterised by biochemical and morphological changes such as DNA fragmentation and cell volume shrinkage. API5 is an anti apoptosis gene located in human chromosome 11, whose expression prevents the programmed cell death that occurs upon the deprivation of growth factors.
Adenine_glyco	Methyladenine glycosylase. The DNA-3-methyladenine glycosylase I is constitutively expressed and is specific for the alkylated 3-methyladenine DNA.
B-block_TFIIIC	B-block binding subunit of TFIIIC. Yeast transcription factor IIIC (TFIIIC) is a multi-subunit protein complex that interacts with two control elements of class III promoters called the A and B blocks. This family represents the subunit within TFIIIC involved in B-block binding.
DUF727	Protein of unknown function (DUF727). This family consists of several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
Foamy_BEL	Foamy virus BEL 1/2 protein. 
YscJ_FliF	Secretory protein of YscJ/FliF family. This family includes proteins that are related to the YscJ lipoprotein, and the amino terminus of FliF, the flageller M-ring protein. The members of the YscJ family are thought to be involved in secretion of several proteins. The FliF protein ring is thought to be part of the export apparatus for flageller proteins, based on the similarity to YscJ proteins.
COX4	Cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV. Cytochrome c oxidase, a 13 sub-unit complex, EC:1.9.3.1 is the terminal oxidase in the mitochondrial electron transport chain. This family is composed of cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV. The Dictyostelium member of this family is called COX VI. The ncharacterized yeast protein YGL226W appears to be the yeast COX IV subunit.
FHA	FHA domain. The FHA (Forkhead-associated) domain is a phosphopeptide binding motif.
CortBP2	Cortactin-binding protein-2. This entry is the first approximately 600 residues of cortactin-binding protein 2. In addition to being a positional candidate for autism this protein is expressed at highest levels in the brain in humans. Towards the C-terminal end of this entry are a series of proline-rich regions which are likely to be the points of interaction with the SH3 domain of cortactin. The human protein has six associated ankyrin repeat domains pfam00023 towards the C-terminus which act as protein-protein interaction domains.
DNA_ligase_A_M	ATP dependent DNA ligase domain. This domain belongs to a more diverse superfamily, including pfam01331 and pfam01653.
VSP	Giardia variant-specific surface protein. 
Gb3_synth	Alpha 1,4-glycosyltransferase conserved region. The glycosphingolipids (GSL) form part of eukaryotic cell membranes. They consist of a hydrophilic carbohydrate moiety linked to a hydrophobic ceramide tail embedded within the lipid bilayer of the membrane. Lactosylceramide, Gal1,4Glc1Cer (LacCer), is the common synthetic precursor to the majority of GSL found in vertebrates. Alpha 1.4-glycosyltransferases utilise UDP donors and transfer the sugar to a beta-linked acceptor. This region appears to be confined to higher eukaryotes. No function has been yet assigned to this region.
DUF461	Protein of unknown function (DUF461). Putative membrane or periplasmic protein.
LysR_substrate	LysR substrate binding domain. The structure of this domain is known and is similar to the periplasmic binding proteins.
B12D	B12D protein. This family consists of several plant specific B12D proteins. The function of this protein is unknown but in barley B12D transcripts are expressed mainly during seed maturation and germination.
Thiolase_N	Thiolase, N-terminal domain. Thiolase is reported to be structurally related to beta-ketoacyl synthase (pfam00109), and also chalcone synthase.
EGF	EGF-like domain. There is no clear separation between noise and signal. pfam00053 is very similar, but has 8 instead of 6 conserved cysteines. Includes some cytokine receptors. The EGF domain misses the N-terminus regions of the Ca2+ binding EGF domains (this is the main reason of discrepancy between Swiss-Prot domain start/end and Pfam). The family is hard to model due to many similar but different sub-types of EGF domains. Pfam certainly misses a number of EGF domains.
LEA_1	Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) group 1. Family members are conserved along the entire coding region, especially within the hydrophobic internal 20 amino acid motif, which may be repeated.
SKG6	Transmembrane alpha-helix domain. SKG6/Axl2 are membrane proteins that shows polarised intracellular localisation. SKG6_Tmem is the highly conserved transmembrane alpha-helical domain of SKG6 and Axl2 proteins,. The full-length fungal protein has a negative regulatory function in cytokinesis.
NAD_synthase	NAD synthase. NAD synthase (EC:6.3.5.1) is involved in the de novo synthesis of NAD and is induced by stress factors such as heat shock and glucose limitation.
PIG-L	GlcNAc-PI de-N-acetylase. Members of this family are related to PIG-L an N-acetylglucosaminylphosphatidylinositol de-N-acetylase (EC:3.5.1.89) that catalyses the second step in GPI biosynthesis.
PSP94	Beta-microseminoprotein (PSP-94). This family consists of the mammalian specific protein beta-microseminoprotein. Prostatic secretory protein of 94 amino acids (PSP94), also called beta-microseminoprotein, is a small, nonglycosylated protein, rich in cysteine residues. It was first isolated as a major protein from human seminal plasma. The exact function of this protein is unknown.
DUF1517	Protein of unknown function (DUF1517). This family consists of several hypothetical glycine rich plant and bacterial proteins of around 300 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF1045	Protein of unknown function (DUF1045). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins from Agrobacterium, Rhizobium and Brucella species. The function of this family is unknown.
DNA_pol_B_exo	DNA polymerase family B, exonuclease domain. This domain has 3' to 5' exonuclease activity and adopts a ribonuclease H type fold.
DUF2058	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2058). This domain, found in various prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
AcetylCoA_hydro	Acetyl-CoA hydrolase/transferase N-terminal domain. This family contains several enzymes which take part in pathways involving acetyl-CoA. Acetyl-CoA hydrolase EC:3.1.2.1 catalyses the formation of acetate from acetyl-CoA, CoA transferase (CAT1) EC:2.8.3.- produces succinyl-CoA, and acetate-CoA transferase EC:2.8.3.8 utilises acyl-CoA and acetate to form acetyl-CoA.
DUF2419	Protein of unknown function (DUF2419). This is a family of conserved proteins found from plants to humans. The function is not known. A few members are annotated as being cobyrinic acid a,c-diamide synthetase but this could not be confirmed.
DUF1255	Protein of unknown function (DUF1255). This family consists of several conserved hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 95 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown
PsbH	Photosystem II 10 kDa phosphoprotein. This protein is phosphorylated in a light dependent reaction.
Tmemb_185A	Transmembrane Fragile-X-F protein. This is a family of conserved transmembrane proteins that appear in humans to be expressed from a region upstream of the FragileXF site and to be intimately linked with the Fragile-X syndrome. Absence of TMEM185A does not necessarily lead to developmental delay, but might in combination with other, yet unknown, factors. Otherwise, the lack of the TMEM185A protein is either disposable (redundant) or its function can be complemented by the highly similar chromosome 2 retro-pseudogene product, TMEM185B.
AraC_binding	AraC-like ligand binding domain. This family represents the arabinose-binding and dimerisation domain of the bacterial gene regulatory protein AraC. The domain is found in conjunction with the helix-turn-helix (HTH) DNA-binding motif pfam00165. This domain is distantly related to the Cupin domain pfam00190.
SHNi-TPR	SHNi-TPR. SHNi-TPR family members contain a reiterated sequence motif that is an interrupted form of TPR repeat.
DUF1113	Protein of unknown function (DUF1113). This family consists of several bacterial proteins of unknown function.
HDV_ag	Hepatitis delta virus delta antigen. The hepatitis delta virus (HDV) encodes a single protein, the hepatitis delta antigen (HDAg). The central region of this protein has been shown to bind RNA. Several interactions are also mediated by a coiled-coil region at the N terminus of the protein.
GFO_IDH_MocA	Oxidoreductase family, NAD-binding Rossmann fold. This family of enzymes utilise NADP or NAD. This family is called the GFO/IDH/MOCA family in Swiss-Prot.
ANTH	ANTH domain. AP180 is an endocytotic accessory proteins that has been implicated in the formation of clathrin-coated pits. The domain is involved in phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate binding and is a universal adaptor for nucleation of clathrin coats.
AKAP7_NLS	Protein kinase A anchor protein nuclear localisation signal. AKAP7_NLS is the N-terminal domain of the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A, PKA, anchor protein AKAP7. This protein anchors PKA for its role in regulating PKA-mediated gene transcription in both somatic cells and oocytes. AKAP7_NLS carries the nuclear localisation signal (NLS) KKRKK, that indicates the cellular destiny of this anchor protein. Binding to the regulatory subunits RI and RII of PKA is mediated via the family AKAP7_RIRII_bdg. at the C-terminus.
GSPII_F	Bacterial type II secretion system protein F domain. The original family covered both the regions found by the current model. The splitting of the family has allowed the related FlaJ_arch (archaeal FlaJ family) to be merged with it. Proteins with this domain in form a platform for the type II secretion machinery, as well as the type IV pili and the archaeal flagellae. This domain seems to show some similarity to pfam00664, but this may just be due to similarities in the TM helices (personal obs: C Yeats).
Copper-bind	Copper binding proteins, plastocyanin/azurin family. 
DUF2359	Uncharacterised conserved protein (DUF2359). This is a 450 amino acid region of a family of proteins conserved from insects to humans. The mouse protein, Q8BM55, is annotated as being a putative Vitamin K-dependent carboxylation gamma-carboxyglutamic (GLA) domain containing protein, but this could not be confirmed. The function is not known.
IFNGR1	Interferon gamma receptor alpha chain (IFNGR1). This family consists of several mammalian interferon gamma receptor (IFNGR1) proteins. Molecular interactions among cytokines and cytokine receptors form the basis of many cell-signaling pathways relevant to immune function. Human interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) signals through a multimeric receptor complex consisting of two different but structurally related transmembrane chains: the high-affinity receptor-binding subunit (IFN-gammaRalpha) and a species specific accessory factor (AF-1 or IFN-gammaRbeta).
PQ-loop	PQ loop repeat. Members of this family are all membrane bound proteins possessing a pair of repeats each spanning two transmembrane helices connected by a loop. The PQ motif found on loop 2 is critical for the localisation of cystinosin to lysosomes. However, the PQ motif appears not to be a general lysosome-targeting motif. It is thought likely to possess a more general function. Most probably this involves a glutamine residue.
Apolipoprotein	Apolipoprotein A1/A4/E domain. These proteins contain several 22 residue repeats which form a pair of alpha helices. This family includes: Apolipoprotein A-I. Apolipoprotein A-IV. Apolipoprotein E.
TBCC	Tubulin binding cofactor C. Members of this family are involved in the folding pathway of tubulins.
RINT1_TIP1	RINT-1 / TIP-1 family. This family includes RINT-1, a Rad50 interacting protein which participates in radiation induced checkpoint control, as well as the TIP-1 protein from yeast that seems to be involved in a complex with Sec20p that is required for golgi transport.
Cauli_AT	Aphid transmission protein. This protein is found in various caulimoviruses. It codes for an 18 kDa protein (PII), which is dispensable for infection but which is required for aphid transmission of the virus. This protein interacts with the PIII protein.
SDF	Sodium:dicarboxylate symporter family. 
Herpes_glycop_D	Herpesvirus glycoprotein D. Herpes viruses are dsDNA viruses with no RNA stage. This is a family consists of glycoprotein-D (gD or gIV) which is common to herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2, as well as equine herpes, bovine herpes and Marek's disease virus. Glycoprotein-D has been found on the viral envelope and the plasma membrane of infected cells. and gD immunisation can produce an immune response to bovine herpes virus (BHV-1). This response is stronger than that of the other major glycoproteins gB (gI) and gC (gIII) in BHV-1.
7TM_GPCR_Srbc	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srbc. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srbc is a solo family amongst the superfamilies of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
Coatomer_E	Coatomer epsilon subunit. This family represents the epsilon subunit of the coatomer complex, which is involved in the regulation of intracellular protein trafficking between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex.
RFC-E_C	Clamp-loader complex subunit E C-terminus. This is the C-terminal domain of RFC-E, one of the five RFC proteins of the clamp loader complex (replication factor-C, RFC) which binds to the DNA sliding clamp (proliferating cell nuclear antigen, PCNA). The five modules of RFC assemble into a right-handed spiral, which results in only three of the five RFC subunits (RFC-A, RFC-B and RFC-C) making contact with PCNA, leaving a wedge-shaped gap between RFC-E and the PCNA clamp-loader complex. The C-terminal is vital for the correct orientation of RFC-E with respect to RFC-A.
Porphobil_deam	Porphobilinogen deaminase, dipyromethane cofactor binding domain. 
PDZ	PDZ domain (Also known as DHR or GLGF). PDZ domains are found in diverse signaling proteins.
NOP5NT	NOP5NT (NUC127) domain. This N terminal domain is found in RNA-binding proteins of the NOP5 family.
PPP5	PPP5. This domain is specific to the PPP5 subfamily of serine/threonine phosphatases.
Suf	Suppressor of forked protein (Suf). This family consists of several eukaryotic suppressor of forked (Suf) like proteins. The Drosophila melanogaster Suppressor of forked [Su(f)] protein shares homology with the yeast RNA14 protein and the 77-kDa subunit of human cleavage stimulation factor, which are proteins involved in mRNA 3' end formation. This suggests a role for Su(f) in mRNA 3' end formation in Drosophila. The su(f) gene produces three transcripts; two of them are polyadenylated at the end of the transcription unit, and one is a truncated transcript, polyadenylated in intron 4. It is thought that su(f) plays a role in the regulation of poly(A) site utilisation and an important role of the GU-rich sequence for this regulation to occur.
Terpene_synth	Terpene synthase, N-terminal domain. It has been suggested that this gene family be designated tps (for terpene synthase). It has been split into six subgroups on the basis of phylogeny, called tpsa-tpsf. tpsa includes vetispiridiene synthase, 5-epi- aristolochene synthase, and (+)-delta-cadinene synthase. tpsb includes (-)-limonene synthase. tpsc includes kaurene synthase A. tpsd includes taxadiene synthase, pinene synthase, and myrcene synthase. tpse includes kaurene synthase B. tpsf includes linalool synthase.
DUF726	Protein of unknown function (DUF726). This family consists of several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
zf-UBR	Putative zinc finger in N-recognin (UBR box). This region is found in E3 ubiquitin ligases that recognise N-recognins.
Peptidase_U4	Sporulation factor SpoIIGA. 
PSI_8	Photosystem I reaction centre subunit VIII. 
DUF1221	Protein of unknown function (DUF1221). This is a family of plant proteins, most of which are hypothetical and of unknown function. All members contain the pfam00069 domain, suggesting that they may possess kinase activity.
IDH	Monomeric isocitrate dehydrogenase. NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICD) is an important enzyme of the intermediary metabolism, as it controls the carbon flux within the citric acid cycle and supplies the cell with 2-oxoglutarate EC:1.1.1.42 and NADPH for biosynthetic purposes.
eIF-5_eIF-2B	Domain found in IF2B/IF5. This family includes the N terminus of eIF-5, and the C terminus of eIF-2 beta. This region corresponds to the whole of the archaebacterial eIF-2 beta homologue. The region contains a putative zinc binding C4 finger.
RNA_pol_Rpb1_7	RNA polymerase Rpb1, domain 7. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain, domain 7, represents a mobile module of the RNA polymerase. Domain 7 forms a substantial interaction with the lobe domain of Rpb2 (pfam04561).
UPF0113	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0113). 
14-3-3	14-3-3 protein. 
7TM_GPCR_Srj	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srj. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srj is part of the Str superfamily of chemoreceptors. The srj family is designated as the out-group based on its location in preliminary phylogenetic analyses of the entire superfamily. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
PAN_2	PAN-like domain. 
DUF561	Protein of unknown function (DUF561). Protein of unknown function found in a cyanobacterium, and the chloroplasts of algae.
Diphthamide_syn	Putative diphthamide synthesis protein. Human DPHL2 is a candidate tumour suppressor gene. DPH2 from yeast, which confers resistance to diphtheria toxin has been found to be involved in diphthamide synthesis. Diphtheria toxin inhibits eukaryotic protein synthesis by ADP-ribosylating diphthamide, a posttranslationally modified histidine residue present in EF2. The exact function of the members of this family is unknown.
Pmp24	Peroxisomal membrane protein 24. Peroxisomes are single membrane bound organelles, present in practically all eukaryotic cells, and involved in a variety of metabolic pathways; the deduced protein is extremely basic, a characteristic of many other peroxisomal intrinsic membrane proteins. They carry two short stretches of hydrophobic residues shown to be necessary for the correct targeting of these proteins. A sequence with these characteristics is found in human PMP24 (amino acid residues 16-30). However, in the absence of experimental data, the involvement of this domain in the targeting of PMP24 remains to be proved. PMP24 was known as Pmp27.
TrwC	TrwC relaxase. Relaxases are DNA strand transferases which function during the conjugative cell to cell DNA transfer. TrwC binds to the origin of transfer (oriT) and melts the double helix.
UPF0560	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0560. This family of proteins has no known function.
Protamine_P1	Protamine P1. 
Ubie_methyltran	ubiE/COQ5 methyltransferase family. 
TGT	Queuine tRNA-ribosyltransferase. This is a family of queuine tRNA-ribosyltransferases EC:2.4.2.29, also known as tRNA-guanine transglycosylase and guanine insertion enzyme. Queuine tRNA-ribosyltransferase modifies tRNAs for asparagine, aspartic acid, histidine and tyrosine with queuine. It catalyses the exchange of guanine-34 at the wobble position with 7-aminomethyl-7-deazaguanine, and the addition of a cyclopentenediol moiety to 7-aminomethyl-7-deazaguanine-34 tRNA; giving a hypermodified base queuine in the wobble position. The aligned region contains a zinc binding motif C-x-C-x2-C-x29-H, and important tRNA and 7-aminomethyl-7deazaguanine binding residues.
DUF2439	Protein of unknown function (DUF2439). Proteins in this family have been implicated in telomere maintenance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in meiotic chromosome segregation in Schizosaccharomyces pombe
RNase_P_p30	RNase P subunit p30. This protein is part of the RNase P complex that is involved in tRNA maturation.
Ribosomal_L36e	Ribosomal protein L36e. 
E1_dh	Dehydrogenase E1 component. This family uses thiamine pyrophosphate as a cofactor. This family includes pyruvate dehydrogenase, 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase and 2-oxoisovalerate dehydrogenase.
Vps4_C	Vps4 C terminal oligomerisation domain. This domain is found at the C terminal of ATPase proteins involved in vacuolar sorting. It forms an alpha helix structure and is required for oligomerisation.
PhyH	Phytanoyl-CoA dioxygenase (PhyH). This family is made up of several eukaryotic phytanoyl-CoA dioxygenase (PhyH) proteins, ectoine hydroxylases and a number of bacterial deoxygenases. PhyH is a peroxisomal enzyme catalysing the first step of phytanic acid alpha-oxidation. PhyH deficiency causes Refsum's disease (RD) which is an inherited neurological syndrome biochemically characterised by the accumulation of phytanic acid in plasma and tissues.
Saccharop_dh	Saccharopine dehydrogenase. This family comprised of three structural domains that can not be separated in the linear sequence. In some organisms this enzyme is found as a bifunctional polypeptide with lysine ketoglutarate reductase. The saccharopine dehydrogenase can also function as a saccharopine reductase.
KdpD	Osmosensitive K+ channel His kinase sensor domain. This is a family of KdpD sensor kinase proteins that regulate the kdpFABC operon responsible for potassium transport. The aligned region corresponds to the N-terminal cytoplasmic part of the protein which may be the sensor domain responsible for sensing turgor pressure.
EGF_2	EGF-like domain. This family contains EGF domains found in a variety of extracellular proteins.
Fer4	4Fe-4S binding domain. Superfamily includes proteins containing domains which bind to iron-sulfur clusters. Members include bacterial ferredoxins, various dehydrogenases, and various reductases. Structure of the domain is an alpha-antiparallel beta sandwich.
PhoU_div	Protein of unknown function DUF47. This family includes prokaryotic proteins of unknown function, as well as a protein annotated as the pit accessory protein from Sinorhizobium meliloti. However, the function of this protein is also unknown (Pit stands for Phosphate transport). It is probably distantly related to pfam01895 (personal obs:Yeats C).
Cloacin	Cloacin. 
Bac_export_1	Bacterial export proteins, family 1. This family includes the following members; FliR, MopE, SsaT, YopT, Hrp, HrcT and SpaR All of these members export proteins, that do not possess signal peptides, through the membrane. Although the proteins that these exporters move may be different, the exporters are thought to function in similar ways.
CHORD	CHORD. CHORD represents a Zn binding domain. Silencing of the Caenorhabditis elegans CHORD-containing gene results in semisterility and embryo lethality, suggesting an essential function of the wild-type gene in nematode development.
HipA_C	HipA-like C-terminal domain. The members of this family are similar to a region close to the C-terminus of the HipA protein expressed by various bacterial species. This protein is known to be involved in high-frequency persistence to the lethal effects of inhibition of either DNA or peptidoglycan synthesis. When expressed alone, it is toxic to bacterial cells, but it is usually tightly associated with HipB, and the HipA-HipB complex may be involved in autoregulation of the hip operon. The hip proteins may be involved in cell division control and may interact with cell division genes or their products.
HCNGP	HCNGP-like protein. This family comprises sequences bearing significant similarity to the mouse transcriptional regulator protein HCNGP. This protein is localised to the nucleus and is thought to be involved in the regulation of beta-2-microglobulin genes.
Rieske	Rieske [2Fe-2S] domain. The rieske domain has a [2Fe-2S] centre. Two conserved cysteines that one Fe ion while the other Fe ion is coordinated by two conserved histidines.
DUF2044	Conserved membrane protein (DUF2044). This entry is of proteins of approximately 600 residues in length containing alternating regions of conservation and low complexity. The function is unknown.
SPT16	FACT complex subunit (SPT16/CDC68). Proteins in this family are subunits the FACT complex. The FACT complex plays a role in transcription initiation and promotes binding of TATA-binding protein (TBP) to a TATA box in chromatin.
eIF3_N	eIF3 subunit 6 N terminal domain. This is the N terminal domain of subunit 6 translation initiation factor eIF3.
Ribosomal_L4	Ribosomal protein L4/L1 family. This family includes Ribosomal L4/L1 from eukaryotes and archaebacteria and L4 from eubacteria. L4 from yeast has been shown to bind rRNA.
EST1	Telomerase activating protein Est1. Est1 is a protein which recruits or activates telomerase at the site of polymerisation.
ACR_tran	AcrB/AcrD/AcrF family. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins. Some are involved in drug resistance. AcrB cooperates with a membrane fusion protein, AcrA, and an outer membrane channel TolC. The structure shows the AcrB forms a homotrimer.
iPGM_N	BPG-independent PGAM N-terminus (iPGM_N). This family represents the N-terminal region of the 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate-independent phosphoglycerate mutase (or phosphoglyceromutase or BPG-independent PGAM) protein (EC:5.4.2.1). The family is found in conjunction with pfam01676 (located in the C-terminal region of the protein).
PdxA	Pyridoxal phosphate biosynthetic protein PdxA. In Escherichia coli the coenzyme pyridoxal 5'-phosphate is synthesised de novo by a pathway that is thought to involve the condensation of 4-(phosphohydroxy)-L-threonine and 1-deoxy-D-xylulose, catalysed by the enzymes PdxA and PdxJ, to form either pyridoxine (vitamin B6) or pyridoxine 5'-phosphate.
HupH_C	HupH hydrogenase expression protein, C-terminal conserved region. This family represents a C-terminal conserved region found in these bacterial proteins necessary for hydrogenase synthesis. Their precise function is unknown.
Serendipity_A	Serendipity locus alpha protein (SRY-A). The Drosophila serendipity alpha (sry alpha) gene is specifically transcribed at the blastoderm stage, from nuclear cycle 11 to the onset of gastrulation, in all somatic nuclei. SRY-A is required for the cellularisation of the embryo and is involved in the localisation of the actin filaments just prior to and during plasma membrane invagination.
Semialdhyde_dh	Semialdehyde dehydrogenase, NAD binding domain. This Pfam entry contains the following members: N-acetyl-glutamine semialdehyde dehydrogenase (AgrC) Aspartate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase
NadA	Quinolinate synthetase A protein. Quinolinate synthetase catalyses the second step of the de novo biosynthetic pathway of pyridine nucleotide formation. In particular, quinolinate synthetase is involved in the condensation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and iminoaspartate to form quinolinic acid. This synthesis requires two enzymes, a FAD-containing "B protein" and an "A protein".
zf-NF-X1	NF-X1 type zinc finger. This domain is presumed to be a zinc binding domain. The following pattern describes the zinc finger. C-X(1-6)-H-X-C-X3-C(H/C)-X(3-4)-(H/C)-X(1-10)-C Where X can be any amino acid, and numbers in brackets indicate the number of residues. Two positions can be either his or cys. This family includes the Drosophila protein shuttle craft, human transcriptional repressor NF-X1, and The yeast RING finger protein YNL023C. The zinc fingers in NF-X1 bind to DNA.
Glyoxalase	Glyoxalase/Bleomycin resistance protein/Dioxygenase superfamily. 
PAS_6	YheO-like PAS domain. This family contains various hypothetical bacterial proteins that are similar to the Escherichia coli protein YheO. Their function is unknown, but are likely to be involved in signalling based on the presence of this PAS domain.
DUF1764	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF1764). This is a family of eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. This family contains many hypothetical proteins.
Telomere_reg-2	Telomere length regulation protein. This family is the central conserved 110 amino acid region of a group of proteins called telomere-length regulation or clock abnormal protein-2 which are conserved from plants to humans. The full-length protein regulates telomere length and contributes to silencing of sub-telomeric regions. In vitro the protein binds to telomeric DNA repeats.
DUF2431	Domain of unknown function (DUF2431). This is the N-terminal domain of a family of proteins found from plants to humans. The function is not known.
GATase_2	Glutamine amidotransferases class-II. 
CVNH	CVNH domain. CyanoVirin-N Homology domains are found in the sugar-binding antiviral protein cyanovirin-N (CVN) as well as filamentous ascomycetes and in the fern Ceratopteris richardii.
LACT	Lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase. Lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LACT) is involved in extracellular metabolism of plasma lipoproteins, including cholesterol.
Cytomega_gL	Cytomegalovirus glycoprotein L. Glycoprotein L from cytomegalovirus serves a chaperone for the correct folding and surface expression of glycoprotein H (gH). Glycoprotein L is a member of the heterotrimeric gCIII complex of glycoprotein which also includes gH and gO and has an essential role in viral fusion.
MttA_Hcf106	mttA/Hcf106 family. Members of this protein family are involved in a sec independent translocation mechanism. This pathway has been called the DeltapH pathway in chloroplasts. Members of this family in E.coli are involved in export of redox proteins with a "twin arginine" leader motif.
Glyco_hydro_14	Glycosyl hydrolase family 14. This family are beta amylases.
ResB	ResB-like family. This family includes both ResB and cytochrome c biogenesis proteins. Mutations in ResB indicate that they are essential for growth. ResB is predicted to be a transmembrane protein.
ASCH	ASCH domain. The ASCH domain adopts a beta-barrel fold similar to the pfam01472 domain. It is thought to function as an RNA-binding domain during coactivation, RNA-processing and possibly during prokaryotic translation regulation.
ActA	ActA Protein. The ActA family is found in Listeria and is associated with motility. ActA protein acts as a scaffold to assemble and activate host cell actin cytoskeletal factors at the bacterial surface, resulting in directional actin polymerisation and propulsion of the bacterium through the cytoplasm of the host cell.
JmjC	JmjC domain. The JmjC domain belongs to the Cupin superfamily. JmjC-domain proteins may be protein hydroxylases that catalyse a novel histone modification.
PMSR	Peptide methionine sulfoxide reductase. This enzyme repairs damaged proteins. Methionine sulfoxide in proteins is reduced to methionine.
Ribosomal_L6	Ribosomal protein L6. 
DUF849	Prokaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF849). This family consists of several hypothetical prokaryotic proteins with no known function.
DUF2310	Zn-ribbon-containing, possibly nucleic-acid-binding protein (DUF2310). Members of this family of proteobacterial zinc ribbon proteins are thought to bind to nucleic acids, however their exact function has not as yet been defined.
DUF530	Protein of unknown function (DUF530). Family of hypothetical archaeal proteins.
PGAM	Phosphoglycerate mutase family. Y019_MYCTU and YK23_YEAST are not included in the Prosite entry. However these sequences are significantly similar and contain identical active site residues.
Sec23_trunk	Sec23/Sec24 trunk domain. COPII-coated vesicles carry proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi complex. This vesicular transport can be reconstituted by using three cytosolic components containing five proteins: the small GTPase Sar1p, the Sec23p/24p complex, and the Sec13p/Sec31p complex. This domain is known as the trunk domain and has an alpha/beta vWA fold and forms the dimer interface.
DUF1068	Protein of unknown function (DUF1068). This family consists of several hypothetical plant proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The function of this family is unknown.
MATH	MATH domain. This motif has been called the Meprin And TRAF-Homology (MATH) domain. This domain is hugely expanded in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.
DUF1218	Protein of unknown function (DUF1218). This family contains hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function. Family members contain a number of conserved cysteine residues.
DUF2069	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2069). This domain, found in various prokaryotes, has no known function.
DUF265	Protein of unknown function, DUF265. 
PARP	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase catalytic domain. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase catalyses the covalent attachment of ADP-ribose units from NAD+ to itself and to a limited number of other DNA binding proteins, which decreases their affinity for DNA. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase is a regulatory component induced by DNA damage. The carboxyl-terminal region is the most highly conserved region of the protein. Experiments have shown that a carboxyl 40 kDa fragment is still catalytically active.
Herpes_DNAp_acc	Herpes DNA replication accessory factor. Replicative DNA polymerases are capable of polymerising tens of thousands of nucleotides without dissociating from their DNA templates. The high processivity of these polymerases is dependent upon accessory proteins that bind to the catalytic subunit of the polymerase or to the substrate. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) BMRF1 protein is an essential component of the viral DNA polymerase and is absolutely required for lytic virus replication. BMRF1 is also a transactivator. This family is predicted to have a UL42 like structure.
HCV_NS4b	Hepatitis C virus non-structural protein NS4b. No precise function has been assigned to NS4b. However, it is known that NS4b interacts with NS4a and NS3 to form a large replicase complex to direct the viral RNA replication.
AzlD	Branched-chain amino acid transport protein (AzlD). This family consists of a number of bacterial and archaeal branched-chain amino acid transport proteins. AzlD is known to be involved in conferring resistance to 4-azaleucine although its exact role is uncertain.
OST3_OST6	OST3 / OST6 family. The proteins in this family are part of a complex of eight ER proteins that transfers core oligosaccharide from dolichol carrier to Asn-X-Ser/Thr motifs. This family includes both OST3 and OST6, each of which contains four predicted transmembrane helices. Disruption of OST3 and OST6 leads to a defect in the assembly of the complex. Hence, the function of these genes seems to be essential for recruiting a fully active complex necessary for efficient N-glycosylation.
RHS_repeat	RHS Repeat. RHS proteins contain extended repeat regions. These repeats often appear to be involved in ligand binding (e.g.). Note that this model may not find all the repeats in a protein and that it covers two RHS repeats.
CPSF_A	CPSF A subunit region. This family includes a region that lies towards the C-terminus of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) A (160 kDa) subunit. CPSF is involved in mRNA polyadenylation and binds the AAUAAA conserved sequence in pre-mRNA. CPSF has also been found to be necessary for splicing of single-intron pre-mRNAs. The function of the aligned region is unknown but may be involved in RNA/DNA binding.
Sec2p	GDP/GTP exchange factor Sec2p. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Sec2p is a GDP/GTP exchange factor for Sec4p, which is required for vesicular transport at the post-Golgi stage of yeast secretion.
Fork_head_N	Forkhead N-terminal region. The region described in this family is found towards the N-terminus of various eukaryotic fork head/HNF-3-related transcription factors (which contain the pfam00250 domain). These proteins play key roles in embryogenesis, maintenance of differentiated cell states, and tumorigenesis.
Peptidase_M2	Angiotensin-converting enzyme. Members of this family are dipeptidyl carboxydipeptidases (cleave carboxyl dipeptides) and most notably convert angiotensin I to angiotensin II. Many members of this family contain a tandem duplication of the 600 amino acid peptidase domain, both of these are catalytically active. Most members are secreted membrane bound ectoenzymes.
Cas_Cas5e	CRISPR-associated protein (Cas_Cas5e). CRISPR is a term for Clustered, Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. A number of protein families appear only in association with these repeats and are designated Cas (CRISPR-Associated) proteins. This family is represented by CT1976 of Chlorobium tepidum.
Rep_fac_C	Replication factor C. This family includes several subunits of DNA replication factor C.
DUF309	Domain of unknown function (DUF309). This domain is found in eubacterial and archaebacterial proteins of unknown function. The proteins contain a motif HXXXEXX(W/Y) where X can be any amino acid. This motif is likely to be functionally important and may be involved in metal binding.
HNH	HNH endonuclease. 
DUF1110	Protein of unknown function (DUF1110). This family consists of hypothetical proteins specific to Oryza sativa. One sequence appears to be tandemly repeated.
Yos1	Yos1-like. In yeast, Yos1 is a subunit of the Yip1p-Yif1p complex and is required for transport between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex. Yos1 appears to be conserved in eukaryotes.
RNA_pol_III_C17	RNA polymerase III subunit C17. C17 (aka CGRP-RCP) is an essential subunit of RNA polymerase III. C17 forms a subcomplex with C25 which is likely to be the counterpart of subcomplex Rpb4/7 in Pol II.
VP4	Outer Capsid protein VP4 (Hemagglutinin). 
UMPH-1	Pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase (UMPH-1). This family consists of several eukaryotic pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase proteins. P5'N-1, also known as uridine monophosphate hydrolase-1 (UMPH-1), is a member of a large functional group of enzymes, characterised by the ability to dephosphorylate nucleic acids. P5'N-1 catalyses the dephosphorylation of pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphates to the corresponding nucleosides. Deficiencies in this proteins function can lead to several different disorders in humans.
Sec1	Sec1 family. 
CDC14	Cell division control protein 14, SIN component. Cdc14 is a component of the septation initiation network (SIN) and is required for the localisation and activity of Sid1. Sid1 is a protein kinase that localises asymmetrically to one spindle pole body (SPB) in anaphase disappears prior to cell separation.
zf-CHCC	Zinc-finger domain. This is a short zinc-finger domain conserved from fungi to humans. It is Cx8Hx14Cx2C.
Cytadhesin_P30	Cytadhesin P30/P32. This family consists of several Mycoplasma species specific Cytadhesin P32 and P30 proteins. P30 has been found to be membrane associated and localised on the tip organelle. It is thought that it is important in cytadherence and virulence.
EGF_CA	Calcium binding EGF domain. 
IF3_N	Translation initiation factor IF-3, N-terminal domain. 
Myticin-prepro	Myticin pre-proprotein from the mussel. Myticin is a cysteine-rich peptide produced in three isoforms, A, B and C, by Mytilus galloprovincialis, the Mediterranean mussel. Some isoforms show antibacterial activity against gram-positive bacteria, while others are additionally active against the fungus Fusarium oxysporum and a gram-negative bacterium, Escherichia coli D31. Myticin-prepro is the precursor peptide. The mature molecule, named myticin, consists of 40 residues, with four intramolecular disulfide bridges and a cysteine array in the primary structure different from that of previously characterised cysteine-rich antimicrobial peptides. The first 20 amino acids are a putative signal peptide, and the antimicrobial peptide sequence is a 36-residue C-terminal extension. Such a structure suggests that myticins are synthesised as prepro-proteins that are then processed by various proteolytic events before storage in the haemocytes as the active peptide. Myticin precursors are expressed mainly in the haemocytes.
SHQ1	SHQ1 protein. Saccharomyces cerevisiae SHQ1 protein is required for SnoRNAs of the box H/ACA Quantitative accumulation (unpublished).
DUF784	Protein of unknown function (DUF784). This family consists of several proteins of unknown function found exclusively in Brassicaceae.
RcbX	RbcX protein. The RBCX protein has been identified as having a possible chaperone-like function. The rbcX gene is juxtaposed to and cotranscribed with rbcL and rbcS encoding RuBisCO in Anabaena sp. CA. RbcX has been shown to possess a chaperone-like function assisting correct folding of RuBisCO in Escherichia coli expression studies and is needed for RuBisCO to reach its maximal activity.
Sds3	Sds3-like. Repression of gene transcription is mediated by histone deacetylases containing repressor-co-repressor complexes, which are recruited to promoters of target genes via interactions with sequence-specific transcription factors. The co-repressor complex contains a core of at least seven proteins. This family represents the conserved region found in Sds3, Dep1 and BRMS1-homologue p40 proteins.
DUF946	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF946). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The function of this family is unknown.
Macro	Macro domain. This domain is an ADP-ribose binding module. It is found in a number of otherwise unrelated proteins. It is found at the C-terminus of the macro-H2A histone protein. This domain is found in the non-structural proteins of several types of ssRNA viruses such as NSP3 from alphaviruses. This domain is also found on its own in a family of proteins from bacteria, archaebacteria, and eukaryotes.
RPW8	Arabidopsis broad-spectrum mildew resistance protein RPW8. This family consists of several broad-spectrum mildew resistance proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana. Plant disease resistance (R) genes control the recognition of specific pathogens and activate subsequent defence responses. The Arabidopsis thaliana locus RESISTANCE TO POWDERY MILDEW 8 (RPW8) contains two naturally polymorphic, dominant R genes, RPW8.1 and RPW8.2, which individually control resistance to a broad range of powdery mildew pathogens. They induce localised, salicylic acid-dependent defences similar to those induced by R genes that control specific resistance. Apparently, broad-spectrum resistance mediated by RPW8 uses the same mechanisms as specific resistance.
Mg_chelatase	Magnesium chelatase, subunit ChlI. Magnesium-chelatase is a three-component enzyme that catalyses the insertion of Mg2+ into protoporphyrin IX. This is the first unique step in the synthesis of (bacterio)chlorophyll. Due to this, it is thought that Mg-chelatase has an important role in channelling inter- mediates into the (bacterio)chlorophyll branch in response to conditions suitable for photosynthetic growth. ChlI and BchD have molecular weight between 38-42 kDa.
BNIP3	BNIP3. This family consists of several mammalian specific BCL2/adenovirus E1B 19-kDa protein-interacting protein 3 or BNIP3 sequences. BNIP3 belongs to the Bcl-2 homology 3 (BH3)-only family, a Bcl-2-related family possessing an atypical Bcl-2 homology 3 (BH3) domain, which regulates PCD from mitochondrial sites by selective Bcl-2/Bcl-XL interactions. BNIP3 family members contain a C-terminal transmembrane domain that is required for their mitochondrial localisation, homodimerisation, as well as regulation of their pro-apoptotic activities. BNIP3-mediated apoptosis has been reported to be independent of caspase activation and cytochrome c release and is characterised by early plasma membrane and mitochondrial damage, prior to the appearance of chromatin condensation or DNA fragmentation.
RuBisCO_large	Ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase large chain, catalytic domain. The C-terminal domain of RuBisCO large chain is the catalytic domain adopting a TIM barrel fold.
Actin	Actin. 
S6PP_C	Sucrose-6-phosphate phosphohydrolase C-terminal. This is the Sucrose-6-phosphate phosphohydrolase (S6PP or SPP) C-terminal domain as found in in plant sucrose phosphatases. These enzymes irreversibly catalyse the last step in sucrose synthesis following the formation of Sucrose-6-Phosphate via sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS).
AIRS	AIR synthase related protein, N-terminal domain. This family includes Hydrogen expression/formation protein HypE, AIR synthases EC:6.3.3.1, FGAM synthase EC:6.3.5.3 and selenide, water dikinase EC:2.7.9.3. The N-terminal domain of AIR synthase forms the dimer interface of the protein, and is suggested as a putative ATP binding domain.
HR_lesion	HR-like lesion-inducing. Family of plant proteins that are associated with the hypersensitive response (HR) pathway of defence against plant pathogens.
SFT2	SFT2-like protein. This is a family of sequences derived from eukaryotic proteins. They are similar to a region of a SNARE-like protein required for traffic through the Golgi complex, SFT2 protein. This is a conserved protein with four putative transmembrane helices, thought to be involved in vesicular transport in later Golgi compartments. The members of this family also show four putative transmembrane regions.
HgmA	homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase. Homogentisate dioxygenase cleaves the aromatic ring during the metabolic degradation of Phe and Tyr. Homogentisate dioxygenase deficiency causes alkaptonuria. The structure of homogentisate dioxygenase shows that the enzyme forms a hexamer arrangement comprised of a dimer of trimers. The active site iron ion is coordinated near the interface between the trimers.
Pox_VLTF3	Poxvirus Late Transcription Factor VLTF3 like. Members of this family are approximately 26 KDa, and are involved in trans-activator of late transcription.
BSP	Plant Basic Secretory Protein. These basic secretory proteins (BSPs) are believed to be part of the plants defence mechanism against pathogens.
COX_ARM	COX Aromatic Rich Motif. COX2 (Cytochrome O ubiquinol OXidase 2) is a major component of the respiratory complex during vegetative growth. It transfers electrons from a quinol to the binuclear centre of the catalytic subunit 1. The function of this region is not known.
Glyco_transf_34	galactosyl transferase GMA12/MNN10 family. This family contains a number of glycosyltransferase enzymes that contain a DXD motif. This family includes a number of Caenorhabditis elegans homologues where the DXD is replaced by DXH. Some members of this family are included in glycosyltransferase family 34.
ALG3	ALG3 protein. The formation of N-glycosidic linkages of glycoproteins involves the ordered assembly of the common Glc3Man9GlcNAc2 core-oligosaccharide on the lipid carrier dolichyl pyrophosphate. Whereas early mannosylation steps occur on the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum with GDP-Man as donor, the final reactions from Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol to Man9GlcNAc2-PP-Dol on the lumenal side use Dol-P-Man. ALG3 gene encodes the Dol-P-Man:Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol mannosyltransferase.
Phage_integrase	Phage integrase family. Members of this family cleave DNA substrates by a series of staggered cuts, during which the protein becomes covalently linked to the DNA through a catalytic tyrosine residue at the carboxy end of the alignment. The catalytic site residues in CRE recombinase are Arg-173, His-289, Arg-292 and Tyr-324.
Red1	Rec10 / Red1. Rec10 / Red1 is involved in meiotic recombination and chromosome segregation during homologous chromosome formation. This protein localises to the synaptonemal complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the analogous structures (linear elements) in S. pombe. This family is currently only found in fungi.
Pept_tRNA_hydro	Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase. 
PLC-beta_C	PLC-beta C terminal. This domain corresponds to the alpha helical C terminal domain of phospholipase C beta.
PIG-H	GPI-GlcNAc transferase complex, PIG-H component. PIG-H is a family of conserved proteins that complexes with three other proteins to form the GPI-GnT (glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor biosynthesis transferase) complex. It appears to be a peripheral membrane protein facing the cytoplasm involved in the first step in GPI anchor formation.
DUF1725	Protein of unknown function (DUF1725). This family include many eukaryotic and one bacterial sequence. Many of its members are annotated as being putative L1 retrotransposons or LINE-1 reverse transcriptase homologs. The region in question is found repeated in some family members.
S10_plectin	Plectin/S10 domain. This presumed domain is found at the N-terminus of some isoforms of the cytoskeletal muscle protein plectin as well as the ribosomal S10 protein. This domain may be involved in RNA binding.
Acyltransferase	Acyltransferase. This family contains acyltransferases involved in phospholipid biosynthesis and other proteins of unknown function. This family also includes tafazzin, the Barth syndrome gene.
SnoaL	SnoaL-like polyketide cyclase. This family includes SnoaL a polyketide cyclase involved in nogalamycin biosynthesis. This family was formerly known as DUF1486.
Herpes_UL52	Herpesviridae UL52/UL70 DNA primase. Herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA replication in host cells is known to be mediated by seven viral-encoded proteins, three of which form a heterotrimeric DNA helicase-primase complex. This complex consists of UL5, UL8, and UL52 subunits. Heterodimers consisting of UL5 and UL52 have been shown to retain both helicase and primase activities. Nevertheless, UL8 is still essential for replication: though it lacks any DNA binding or catalytic activities, it is involved in the transport of UL5-UL52 and it also interacts with other replication proteins. The molecular mechanisms of the UL5-UL52 catalytic activities are not known. While UL5 is associated with DNA helicase activity and UL52 with DNA primase activity, the helicase activity requires the interaction of UL5 and UL52. It is not known if the primase activity can be maintained by UL52 alone. The region encompassed by residues 610-636 of HSV1 UL52 is thought to contain a divalent metal cation binding motif. Indeed, this region contains several aspartate and glutamate residues that might be involved in divalent cation binding. The biological significance of UL52-UL8 interaction is not known. Yeast two-hybrid analysis together with immunoprecipitation experiments have shown that the HSV1 UL52 region between residues 366-914 is essential for this interaction, while the first 349 N-terminal residues are dispensable. This family also includes protein UL70 from cytomegalovirus (CMV, a subgroup of the Herpesviridae) strains, which, by analogy with UL52, is thought to have DNA primase activity. Indeed, CMV strains also possess a DNA helicase-primase complex, the other subunits being protein UL105 (with known similarity to HSV1 UL5) and protein UL102.
CDC48_N	Cell division protein 48 (CDC48), N-terminal domain. This domain has a double psi-beta barrel fold and includes VCP-like ATPase and N-ethylmaleimide sensitive fusion protein N-terminal domains. Both the VAT and NSF N-terminal functional domains consist of two structural domains of which this is at the N-terminus. The VAT-N domain found in AAA ATPases pfam00004 is a substrate 185-residue recognition domain.
Inhibitor_I9	Peptidase inhibitor I9. This family includes the proteinase B inhibitor from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the activation peptides from peptidases of the subtilisin family. The subtilisin propeptides are known to function as molecular chaperones, assisting in the folding of the mature peptidase, but have also been shown to act as 'temporary inhibitors'.
Corona_S2	Coronavirus S2 glycoprotein. The coronavirus spike glycoprotein forms the characteristic 'corona' after which the group is named. The Spike glycoprotein is translated as a large polypeptide that is subsequently cleaved to S1 pfam01600 and S2.
tRNA-synt_2e	Glycyl-tRNA synthetase alpha subunit. 
CCT_2	Divergent CCT motif. This short motif is found in a number of plant proteins. It appears to be related to the N-terminal half of the CCT motif. The CCT motif is about 45 amino acids long and contains a putative nuclear localisation signal within the second half of the CCT motif.
Prenyltransf	Putative undecaprenyl diphosphate synthase. Previously known as uncharacterized protein family UPF0015; a single member of this family has been identified as an undecaprenyl diphosphate synthase.
Utp14	Utp14 protein. This protein is found to be part of a large ribonucleoprotein complex containing the U3 snoRNA. Depletion of the Utp proteins impedes production of the 18S rRNA, indicating that they are part of the active pre-rRNA processing complex. This large RNP complex has been termed the small subunit (SSU) processome.
HEAT_PBS	PBS lyase HEAT-like repeat. This family contains a short bi-helical repeat that is related to pfam02985. Cyanobacteria and red algae harvest light energy using macromolecular complexes known as phycobilisomes (PBS), peripherally attached to the photosynthetic membrane. The major components of PBS are the phycobiliproteins. These heterodimeric proteins are covalently attached to phycobilins: open-chain tetrapyrrole chromophores, which function as the photosynthetic light-harvesting pigments. Phycobiliproteins differ in sequence and in the nature and number of attached phycobilins to each of their subunits. This family includes the lyase enzymes that specifically attach particular phycobilins to apophycobiliprotein subunits. The most comprehensively studied of these is the CpcE/F lyase, which attaches phycocyanobilin (PCB) to the alpha subunit of apophycocyanin. Similarly, MpeU/V attaches phycoerythrobilin to phycoerythrin II, while CpeY/Z is thought to be involved in phycoerythrobilin (PEB) attachment to phycoerythrin (PE) I (PEs I and II differ in sequence and in the number of attached molecules of PEB: PE I has five, PE II has six). All the reactions of the above lyases involve an apoprotein cysteine SH addition to a terminal delta 3,3'-double bond. Such a reaction is not possible in the case of phycoviolobilin (PVB), the phycobilin of alpha-phycoerythrocyanin (alpha-PEC). It is thought that in this case, PCB, not PVB, is first added to apo-alpha-PEC, and is then isomerised to PVB. The addition reaction has been shown to occur in the presence of either of the components of alpha-PEC-PVB lyase PecE or PecF (or both). The isomerisation reaction occurs only when both PecE and PecF components are present, i.e. the PecE/F phycobiliprotein lyase is also a phycobilin isomerase. Another member of this family is the NblB protein, whose similarity to the phycobiliprotein lyases was previously noted. This constitutively expressed protein is not known to have any lyase activity. It is thought to be involved in the coordination of PBS degradation with environmental nutrient limitation. It has been suggested that the similarity of NblB to the phycobiliprotein lyases is due to the ability to bind tetrapyrrole phycobilins via the common repeated motif.
Metaviral_G	Metaviral_G glycoprotein. This is a viral attachment glycoprotein from region G of metaviruses. It is high in serine and threonine suggesting it is highly glycosylated.
eIF-6	eIF-6 family. This family includes eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 as well as presumed archaebacterial homologues.
Nitroreductase	Nitroreductase family. The nitroreductase family comprises a group of FMN- or FAD-dependent and NAD(P)H-dependent enzymes able to metabolize nitrosubstituted compounds.
DUF913	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF913). Members of this family are found in various ubiquitin protein ligases.
Lipoprotein_1	Borrelia lipoprotein. This family of lipoproteins is found in Borrelia spirochetes. The function of these proteins is uncertain.
Glycos_transf_4	Glycosyl transferase family 4. 
Asparaginase	Asparaginase. 
Colicin_V	Colicin V production protein. Colicin V production protein is required in Escherichia coli for colicin V production from plasmid pColV-K30. This protein is coded for in the purF operon.
Herpes_UL56	Herpesvirus UL56 protein. In herpes simplex virus type 2, UL56 is thought to be a tail-anchored type II membrane protein involved in vesicular trafficking. The C terminal hydrophobic region is required for association with the cytoplasmic membrane, and the N terminal proline-rich region is important for the translocation of UL56 to the Golgi apparatus and cytoplasmic vesicles.
DNA_pol_B	DNA polymerase family B. This region of DNA polymerase B appears to consist of more than one structural domain, possibly including elongation, DNA-binding and dNTP binding activities.
DUF573	Protein of unknown function, DUF573. 
ATP12	ATP12 chaperone protein. Mitochondrial F1-ATPase is an oligomeric enzyme composed of five distinct subunit polypeptides. The alpha and beta subunits make up the bulk of protein mass of F1. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae both subunits are synthesised as precursors with amino-terminal targeting signals that are removed upon translocation of the proteins to the matrix compartment. These proteins include examples from eukaryotes and bacteria and may have chaperone activity, being involved in F1 ATPase complex assembly.
MOSC	MOSC domain. The MOSC (MOCO sulfurase C-terminal) domain is a superfamily of beta-strand-rich domains identified in the molybdenum cofactor sulfurase and several other proteins from both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. These MOSC domains contain an absolutely conserved cysteine and occur either as stand-alone forms, or fused to other domains such as NifS-like catalytic domain in Molybdenum cofactor sulfurase. The MOSC domain is predicted to be a sulfur-carrier domain that receives sulfur abstracted by the pyridoxal phosphate-dependent NifS-like enzymes, on its conserved cysteine, and delivers it for the formation of diverse sulfur-metal clusters.
Proteasom_PSMB	Proteasome non-ATPase 26S subunit. The 26S proteasome, a eukaryotic ATP-dependent, dumb-bell shaped, protease complex with a molecular mass of approx 20kDa consists of a central 20S proteasome,functioning as a catalytic machine, and two large V-shaped terminal modules, having possible regulatory roles,composed of multiple subunits of 25- 110 kDa attached to the central portion in opposite orientations. It is responsible for degradation of abnormal intracellular proteins, including oxidatively damaged proteins, and may play a role as a component of a cellular anti-oxidative system. Expression of catalytic core subunits including PSMB5 and peptidase activities of the proteasome were elevated following incubation with 3-methylcholanthrene. The 20S proteasome comprises a cylindrical stack of four rings, two outer rings formed by seven alpha-subunits (alpha1-alpha7) and two inner rings of seven beta-subunits (beta1-beta7). Two outer rings of alpha subunits maintain structure, while the central beta rings contain the proteolytic active core subunits beta1 (PSMB6), beta2 (PSMB7), and beta5 (PSMB5). Expression of PSMB5 can be altered by chemical reactants, such as 3-methylcholanthrene.
Med10	Transcription factor subunit Med10. Med10 is one of the protein subunits of the Mediator complex, tethered to Rgr1 protein. The Mediator complex is required for the transcription of most RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-transcribed genes. Med10 specifically mediates basal-level HIS4 transcription via Gcn4, and, additionally, there is a putative requirement for Med10 in Bas2-mediated transcription.
DRMBL	DNA repair metallo-beta-lactamase. The metallo-beta-lactamase fold contains five sequence motifs. The first four motifs are found in pfam00753 and are common to all metallo-beta-lactamases. The fifth motif appears to be specific to function. This entry represents the fifth motif from metallo-beta-lactamases involved in DNA repair.
SSXT	SSXT protein (N-terminal region). The SSXT or SS18 protein is involved in synovial sarcoma in humans. A SYT-SSX fusion gene resulting from the chromosomal translocation t(X;18) (p11;q11) is characteristic of synovial sarcomas. This translocation fuses the SSXT (SYT) gene from chromosome 18 to either of two homologous genes at Xp11, SSX1 or SSX2.
Sep15_SelM	Sep15/SelM redox domain. Sep15 and SelM are eukaryotic selenoproteins that have a thioredoxin-like domain and a surface accessible active site redox motif. This suggests that they function as thiol-disulphide isomerases involved in disulphide bond formation in the endoplasmic reticulum.
Meth_synt_2	Cobalamin-independent synthase, Catalytic domain. This is a family of vitamin-B12 independent methionine synthases or 5-methyltetrahydropteroyltriglutamate-homocysteine methyltransferases, EC:2.1.1.14 from bacteria and plants. Plants are the only higher eukaryotes that have the required enzymes for methionine synthesis. This enzyme catalyses the last step in the production of methionine by transferring a methyl group from 5-methyltetrahydrofolate to homocysteine. The aligned region makes up the carboxy region of the approximately 750 amino acid protein except in some hypothetical archaeal proteins present in the family, where this region corresponds to the entire length. This domain contains the catalytic residues of the enzyme.
Chitin_synth_2	Chitin synthase. Members of this family are fungal chitin synthase EC:2.4.1.16 enzymes. They catalyse chitin synthesis as follows: UDP-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine + {(1,4)-(N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminyl)}(N) <=> UDP + {(1,4)-(N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminyl)}(N+1).
tRNA_Me_trans	tRNA methyl transferase. This family represents tRNA(5-methylaminomethyl-2-thiouridine)-methyltransferase which is involved in the biosynthesis of the modified nucleoside 5-methylaminomethyl-2-thiouridine present in the wobble position of some tRNAs.
Membralin	Tumour-associated protein. Membralin is evolutionarily highly conserved; though it seems to represent a unique protein family. The protein appears to contain several transmembrane regions. In humans it is expressed in certain cancers, particularly ovarian cancers.
Ufm1	Ubiquitin fold modifier 1 protein. This is a family of short ubiquitin-like proteins, that is like neither type-1 or type-2. It is a ubiquitin-fold modifier 1 (Ufm1) that is synthesised in a precursor form of 85 amino-acid residues. In humans the enzyme for Ufm1 is Uba5 and the conjugating enzyme is Ufc1. Prior to activation by Uba5 the extra two amino acids at the C-terminal region of the human pro-Ufm1 protein are removed to expose Gly whose residue is necessary for conjugation to target molecule(s). The mature Ufm1 is conjugated to yet unidentified endogenous proteins,. While Ubiquitin and many Ubls possess the conserved C-terminal di-glycine that is adenylated by each specific E1 or E1-like enzyme, respectively, in an ATP-dependent manner, Ufm1(1-83) possesses a single glycine at its C-terminus, which is followed by a Ser-Cys dipeptide in the precursor form of Ufm1. The C-terminally processed Ufm1(1-83) is specifically activated by Uba5, an E1-like enzyme, and then transferred to its cognate Ufc1, an E2-like enzyme.
Herpes_gE	Alphaherpesvirus glycoprotein E. Glycoprotein E (gE) of Alphaherpesvirus forms a complex with glycoprotein I (gI) (pfam01688), functioning as an immunoglobulin G (IgG) Fc binding protein. gE is involved in virus spread but is not essential for propagation.
DUF2585	Protein of unknown function (DUF2585). This family is conserved in Proteobacteria. The function is not known.
Gon7	Gon7 family. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae Gon7 is a member of the KEOPS protein complex. A protein complex proposed to be involved in transcription and promoting telomere uncapping and telomere elongation.
DUF2478	Protein of unknown function (DUF2478). This is a family of hypothetical bacterial proteins found in the vicinity of Molybdenum ABC transporter ATP-binding gene-products MobA MobB and MobC. However the function could not be confirmed.
Ins134_P3_kin	Inositol 1, 3, 4-trisphosphate 5/6-kinase. This family consists of several inositol 1, 3, 4-trisphosphate 5/6-kinase proteins. Inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate is at a branch point in inositol phosphate metabolism. It is dephosphorylated by specific phosphatases to either inositol 3,4-bisphosphate or inositol 1,3-bisphosphate. Alternatively, it is phosphorylated to inositol 1,3,4,6-tetrakisphosphate or inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate by inositol trisphosphate 5/6-kinase.
OSCP	ATP synthase delta (OSCP) subunit. The ATP D subunit from Escherichia coli is the same as the OSCP subunit which is this family. The ATP D subunit from metazoa are found in family pfam00401.
DUF2371	Uncharacterised conserved protein (DUF2371). This is a family of proteins conserved from nematodes to humans. The function is not known.
C4dic_mal_tran	C4-dicarboxylate transporter/malic acid transport protein. 
PqiA	Paraquat-inducible protein A. Paraquat is a superoxide radical-generating agent. The promoter for the pqiA gene is also inducible by other known superoxide generators. This is predicted to be a family of integral membrane proteins, possibly located in the inner membrane. This family is related to NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 (pfam00361).
EII-GUT	PTS system enzyme II sorbitol-specific factor. 
RNB	RNB domain. This domain is the catalytic domain of ribonuclease II.
NOG1	Nucleolar GTP-binding protein 1 (NOG1). This family represents a conserved region of approximately 60 residues in length within nucleolar GTP-binding protein 1 (NOG1). In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the NOG1 gene has been shown to be essential for cell viability, suggesting that NOG1 may play an important role in nucleolar functions. Family members include eukaryotic, bacterial and archaeal proteins.
MOFRL	MOFRL family. MOFRL(multi-organism fragment with rich Leucine) family exists in bacteria and eukaryotes. The function of this domain is not clear, although it exists in some putative enzymes such as reductases and kinases.
MpPF26	M penetrans paralogue family 26. These proteins include those ascribed to M penetrans paralogue family 26.
Amidohydro_1	Amidohydrolase family. This family of enzymes are a a large metal dependent hydrolase superfamily. The family includes Adenine deaminase EC:3.5.4.2 that hydrolyses adenine to form hypoxanthine and ammonia. Adenine deaminases reaction is important for adenine utilisation as a purine and also as a nitrogen source. This family also includes dihydroorotase and N-acetylglucosamine-6-phosphate deacetylases, EC:3.5.1.25 These enzymes catalyse the reaction N-acetyl-D-glucosamine 6-phosphate + H2O <=> D-glucosamine 6-phosphate + acetate. This family includes the catalytic domain of urease alpha subunit. Dihydroorotases (EC:3.5.2.3) are also included.
Peptidase_S32	Equine arteritis virus serine endopeptidase S32. Serine peptidases involved in processing nidovirus polyprotein.
RNase_P_Rpp14	Rpp14/Pop5 family. tRNA processing enzyme ribonuclease P (RNase P) consists of an RNA molecule associated with at least eight protein subunits, hPop1, Rpp14, Rpp20, Rpp25, Rpp29, Rpp30, Rpp38, and Rpp40. This protein is known as Pop5 in eukaryotes.
Molybdopterin	Molybdopterin oxidoreductase. 
Sina	Seven in absentia protein family. The seven in absentia (sina) gene was first identified in Drosophila. The Drosophila Sina protein is essential for the determination of the R7 pathway in photoreceptor cell development: the loss of functional Sina results in the transformation of the R7 precursor cell to a non- neuronal cell type. The Sina protein contains an N-terminal RING finger domain pfam00097. Through this domain, Sina binds E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (UbcD1) Sina also interacts with Tramtrack (TTK88) via PHYL. Tramtrack is a transcriptional repressor that blocks photoreceptor determination, while PHYL down-regulates the activity of TTK88. In turn, the activity of PHYL requires the activation of the Sevenless receptor tyrosine kinase, a process essential for R7 determination. It is thought that thus Sina targets TTK88 for degradation, therefore promoting the R7 pathway. Murine and human homologues of Sina have also been identified. The human homologue Siah-1 also binds E2 enzymes (UbcH5) and through a series of physical interactions, targets beta-catenin for ubiquitin degradation. Siah-1 expression is enhanced by p53, itself promoted by DNA damage. Thus this pathway links DNA damage to beta-catenin degradation. Sina proteins, therefore, physically interact with a variety of proteins. The N-terminal RING finger domain that binds ubiquitin conjugating enzymes is described in pfam00097, and does not form part of the alignment for this family. The remainder C-terminal part is involved in interactions with other proteins, and is included in this alignment. In addition to the Drosophila protein and mammalian homologues, whose similarity was noted previously, this family also includes putative homologues from Caenorhabditis elegans, Arabidopsis thaliana.
ATP-synt	ATP synthase. 
HSA	HSA. This domain is predicted to bind DNA and is often found associated with helicases.
UcrQ	UcrQ family. The ubiquinol-cytochrome C reductase complex (cytochrome bc1 complex) is a respiratory multienzyme complex. This family represents the 9.5 kDa subunit of the complex.
Glyco_transf_28	Glycosyltransferase family 28 N-terminal domain. The glycosyltransferase family 28 includes monogalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase (EC 2.4.1.46) and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transferase (EC 2.4.1.-). This N-terminal domain contains the acceptor binding site and likely membrane association site. This family also contains a large number of proteins that probably have quite distinct activities.
BAG	BAG domain. Domain present in Hsp70 regulators.
DJ-1_PfpI	DJ-1/PfpI family. The family includes the protease PfpI. This domain is also found in transcriptional regulators.
PRONE	PRONE (Plant-specific Rop nucleotide exchanger). This is a functional guanine exchange factor (GEF) of plant Rho GTPase.
RibD_C	RibD C-terminal domain. The function of this domain is not known, but it is thought to be involved in riboflavin biosynthesis. This domain is found in the C terminus of RibD/RibG, in combination with pfam00383, as well as in isolation in some archaebacterial proteins. This family appears to be related to pfam00186.
DUF221	Domain of unknown function DUF221. This family consists of hypothetical transmembrane proteins none of which have any function, the aligned region is at 538 residues at maximum length.
DUF239	Arabidopsis proteins of unknown function. This family contains a number of Arabidopsis proteins, a small number of which are putative peptidases.
MBD	Methyl-CpG binding domain. The Methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD) binds to DNA that contains one or more symmetrically methylated CpGs. DNA methylation in animals is associated with alterations in chromatin structure and silencing of gene expression. MBD has negligible non-specific affinity for DNA. In vitro foot-printing with MeCP2 showed the MBD can protect a 12 nucleotide region surrounding a methyl CpG pair. MBDs are found in several Methyl-CpG binding proteins and also DNA demethylase.
DUF1328	Protein of unknown function (DUF1328). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 50 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
MCPsignal	Methyl-accepting chemotaxis protein (MCP) signaling domain. This domain is thought to transduce the signal to CheA since it is highly conserved in very diverse MCPs.
DUF615	Protein of unknown function (DUF615). This family of bacterial proteins has no known function.
Orthoreo_P10	Orthoreovirus membrane fusion protein p10. This family consists of several Orthoreovirus membrane fusion protein p10 sequences. p10 is thought to be a multifunctional protein that plays a key role in virus-host interaction.
DUF735	Protein of unknown function (DUF735). This family consists of several uncharacterised Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease spirochete) proteins of unknown function.
InvE	InvE invasion protein. This family consists of the InvE invasion protein from Salmonella. This protein is involved in host parasite interactions and mutations in the InvE gene render Salmonella typhimurium noninvasive. InvE S. typhimurium mutants fail to elicit a rapid Ca2+ increase in cultured cells, an important event in the infection procedure and internalisation of S. typhimurium into epithelial cells. Members of this family are also found in other bacterial species such as Chlamydia muridarum and Yersinia enterocolitica.
UPF0057	Uncharacterized protein family UPF0057. 
Cu_amine_oxidN3	Copper amine oxidase, N3 domain. This domain is the second or third structural domain in copper amine oxidases, it is known as the N3 domain. Its function is uncertain. The catalytic domain can be found in pfam01179. Copper amine oxidases are a ubiquitous and novel group of quinoenzymes that catalyse the oxidative deamination of primary amines to the corresponding aldehydes, with concomitant reduction of molecular oxygen to hydrogen peroxide. The enzymes are dimers of identical 70-90 kDa subunits, each of which contains a single copper ion and a covalently bound cofactor formed by the post-translational modification of a tyrosine side chain to 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenylalanine quinone (TPQ).
Spheroidin	Entomopoxvirus spheroidin protein. Entomopoxviruses (EPVs) are large (300-400 nm) oval-shaped viruses replicating in the cytoplasm of their insect host cells. At the end of their replicative cycle EPVs virions are occluded in a highly expressed protein called spheroidin. This protein forms large (5-20 mm long) oval-shaped occlusion bodies (OBs) called spherules. The infectious cycle of EPVs begins with the ingestion by the insect host of the spherules, their dissolution by the alkaline reducing conditions of the midgut fluid and the release of virions in the midgut lumen. The infective particles first replicate in midgut epithelial cells, then pass the gut barrier to colonise the internal tissues, mainly the fat body cells. Whilst spheroidin has been demonstrated to be non-essential for viral replication, it plays an essential role in the natural biological cycle of the virus in protecting virions from adverse environmental conditions (e.g. UV degradation) and thus improving transmission efficacy. In this respect, spheroidins are functionally similar to polyhedrins of baculoviruses or cypoviruses.
GHMP_kinases_C	GHMP kinases C terminal. This family includes homoserine kinases, galactokinases and mevalonate kinases.
BCNT	Bucentaur or craniofacial development. Bucentaur or craniofacial development protein 1 (BCNT) in ruminents has a different domain architecture to that in mouse and human. For this reason it has been used as a model for molecular evolution. Both bovine and human BCNTs are phosphorylated by casein kinase II in vitro.
Ax_dynein_light	Axonemal dynein light chain. Axonemal dynein light chain proteins play a dynamic role in flagellar and cilia motility. Eukaryotic cilia and flagella are complex organelles consisting of a core structure, the axoneme, which is composed of nine microtubule doublets forming a cylinder that surrounds a pair of central singlet microtubules. This ultra-structural arrangement seems to be one of the most stable micro-tubular assemblies known and is responsible for the flagellar and ciliary movement of a large number of organisms ranging from protozoan to mammals. This light chain interacts directly with the N-terminal half of the heavy chains.
DUF847	Predicted lysozyme (DUF847). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial sequences as well as one viral sequence, P5 from Pseudomonas phage phi8, the function of this family is unknown. However, these proteins are predicted to be related to lysozyme enzymes.
zf-P11	P-11 zinc finger. 
7TM-7TMR_HD	7TM receptor with intracellular HD hydrolase. These bacterial 7TM receptor proteins have an intracellular pfam01966. This entry corresponds to the 7 helix transmembrane domain. These proteins also contain an N-terminal extracellular domain.
Creb_binding	Creb binding. The Creb binding domain assumes a structure comprising of three alpha-helices which pack in a bundle, exposing a hydrophobic groove between alpha-1 and alpha-3 within which complimentary domains found in the protein 'activator for thyroid hormone and retinoid receptors' (ACTR) can dock. Docking of these domains is required for the recruitment of RNA polymerase II and the basal transcription machinery.
DUF2358	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2358). DUF2358 is a family of conserved proteins found from plants to humans. The function is unknown.
FYTT	Forty-two-three protein. This family consists of several mammalian proteins of around 320 residues in length called 40-2-3 proteins. The function of this family is unknown.
ArfGap	Putative GTPase activating protein for Arf. Putative zinc fingers with GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) towards the small GTPase, Arf. The GAP of ARD1 stimulates GTPase hydrolysis for ARD1 but not ARFs.
HC2	Histone H1-like nucleoprotein HC2. This family contains the bacterial histone H1-like nucleoprotein HC2 (approximately 200 residues long), which seems to be found mostly in Chlamydia. HC2 functions in DNA condensation, although it has been suggested that it also has other roles.
Adeno_E1B_55K	Adenovirus EB1 55K protein / large t-antigen. This family consists of adenovirus E1B 55K protein or large t-antigen. E1B 55K binds p53 the tumour suppressor protein converting it from a transcriptional activator which responds to damaged DNA in to an unregulated repressor of genes with a p53 binding site. This protects the virus against p53 induced host antiviral responses and prevents apoptosis as induced by the adenovirus E1A protein. The E1B region of adenovirus encodes two proteins E1B 55K the large t-antigen as found in this family and E1B 19K pfam01691 the small t-antigen which is not found in this family; both of these proteins inhibit E1A induced apoptosis.
YfhO	Bacterial membrane protein YfhO. This protein is a conserved membrane protein. The yfhO gene is transcribed in Difco sporulation medium and the transcription is affected by the YvrGHb two-component system. Some members of this family have been annotated as glycosyl transferases of the PMT family.
IER	Immediate early response protein (IER). This family consists of several eukaryotic immediate early response (IER) 2 and 5 proteins. The role of IER5 is unclear although it play an important role in mediating the cellular response to mitogenic signals. Again, little is known about the function of IER2 although it is thought to play a role in mediating the cellular responses to a variety of extracellular signals.
Ribosomal_L22	Ribosomal protein L22p/L17e. This family includes L22 from prokaryotes and chloroplasts and L17 from eukaryotes.
DUF579	Protein of unknown function (DUF579). Family of uncharacterised plant proteins.
AAR2	AAR2 protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic AAR2-like proteins. The yeast protein AAR2 is involved in splicing pre-mRNA of the a1 cistron and other genes that are important for cell growth.
DUF707	Protein of unknown function (DUF707). This family consists of several uncharacterised proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana.
CD20	CD20/IgE Fc receptor beta subunit family. This family includes the CD20 protein and the beta subunit of the high affinity receptor for IgE Fc. The high affinity receptor for IgE is a tetrameric structure consisting of a single IgE-binding alpha subunit, a single beta subunit, and two disulfide-linked gamma subunits. The alpha subunit of Fc epsilon RI and most Fc receptors are homologous members of the Ig superfamily. By contrast, the beta and gamma subunits from Fc epsilon RI are not homologous to the Ig superfamily. Both molecules have four putative transmembrane segments and a probably topology where both amino- and carboxy termini protrude into the cytoplasm.
DUF2502	Protein of unknown function (DUF2502). Members of this family are all Gammaproteobacteria. The function is not known.
DUF1055	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF1055). This region is found in Ubiquitin-specific proteases.
RTX_C	RTX C-terminal domain. This family describes the C-terminal region of various bacterial haemolysins and leukotoxins, which belong to the RTX family of toxins. These are produced by various Gram negative bacteria, such as Escherichia coli and Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae. RTX toxins may interact with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to functionally impair and eventually kill leukocytes. This region is found in association with the RTX N-terminal domain (pfam02382) and multiple hemolysin-type calcium-binding repeats (pfam00353).
Peptidase_C15	Pyroglutamyl peptidase. 
DUF2488	Protein of unknown function (DUF2488). This is a family of uncharacterised proteins.
STAG	STAG domain. STAG domain proteins are subunits of cohesin complex - a protein complex required for sister chromatid cohesion in eukaryotes. The STAG domain is present in Schizosaccharomyces pombe mitotic cohesin Psc3, and the meiosis specific cohesin Rec11. Many organisms express a meiosis-specific STAG protein, for example, mice and humans have a meiosis specific variant called STAG3, although budding yeast does not have a meiosis specific version.
ALS_ss_C	Small subunit of acetolactate synthase. ALS_ss_C is the C-terminal half of a family of proteins which are the small subunits of acetolactate synthase. Acetolactate synthase is a tetrameric enzyme, containing probably two large and two small subunits, which catalyses the first step in branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis. This reaction is sensitive to certain herbicides.
SKI	Shikimate kinase. 
BRO1	BRO1-like domain. This domain is found in a number proteins including Rhophilin and BRO1. It is known to have a role in endosomal targeting. ESCRT-III subunit Snf7 binds to a conserved hydrophobic patch in the BRO1 domain that is required for protein complex formation and for the protein-sorting function of BRO1.
Rad9_Rad53_bind	Fungal Rad9-like Rad53-binding. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the Rad9 a key adaptor protein in DNA damage checkpoint pathways. DNA damage induces Rad9 phosphorylation, and Rad53 specifically associates with this region of Rad9, when phosphorylated, via Rad53 pfam00498 domains. This region is structurally composed of a pair of TUDOR domains.
GP38	Phage tail fibre adhesin Gp38. This family contains several Gp38 proteins from T-even-like phages. Gp38, together with a second phage protein, gp57, catalyses the organisation of gp37 but is absent from the phage particle. Gp37 is responsible for receptor recognition.
Zw10	Centromere/kinetochore Zw10. Zw10 and rough deal proteins are both required for correct metaphase check-pointing during mitosis. These proteins bind to the centromere/kinetochore.
IncFII_repA	IncFII RepA protein family. This protein is plasmid encoded and found to be essential for plasmid replication.
Cornichon	Cornichon protein. 
Ribosomal_L19	Ribosomal protein L19. 
PI3K_1B_p101	Phosphoinositide 3-kinase gamma adapter protein p101 subunit. Class I PI3Ks are dual-specific lipid and protein kinases involved in numerous intracellular signaling pathways. Class IB PI3K, p110gamma, is mainly activated by seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), through its regulatory subunit p101 and G-protein beta-gamma subunits.
Ribosomal_L35p	Ribosomal protein L35. 
Peptidase_C65	Peptidase C65 Otubain. This family of proteins conserved from plants to humans is a highly specific ubiquitin iso-peptidase that removes ubiquitin from proteins. The modification of cellular proteins by ubiquitin (Ub) is an important event that underlies protein stability and function in eukaryote being a dynamic and reversible process. Otubain carries several key conserved domains: (i) the OTU (ovarian tumour domain) in which there is an active cysteine protease triad (ii) a nuclear localisation signal, (iii) a Ub interaction motif (UIM)-like motif phi-xx-A-xxxs-xx-Ac (where phi indicates an aromatic amino acid, x indicates any amino acid and Ac indicates an acidic amino acid), (iv) a Ub-associated (UBA)-like domain and (v) the LxxLL motif.
STE2	Fungal pheromone mating factor STE2 GPCR. 
DUF2050	Putative pre-mRNA-splicing factor (DUF2039). This entry is characterised by proteins with alternating conserved and low-complexity regions. It is suggested that the proteins may function in pre-mRNA splicing.
Peptidase_S10	Serine carboxypeptidase. 
DUF901	Protein of unknown function (DUF901). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins as well as some uncharacterised sequences from Arabidopsis thaliana. The function of this family is unknown.
MoeA_N	MoeA N-terminal region (domain I and II). This family contains two structural domains. One of these contains the conserved DGXA motif. This region is found in proteins involved in biosynthesis of molybdopterin cofactor however the exact molecular function of this region is uncertain.
RNA_pol_Rpb1_3	RNA polymerase Rpb1, domain 3. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain, domain 3, represents the pore domain. The 3' end of RNA is positioned close to this domain. The pore delimited by this domain is thought to act as a channel through which nucleotides enter the active site and/or where the 3' end of the RNA may be extruded during back-tracking.
DUF862	PPPDE putative peptidase domain. The PPPDE superfamily (after Permuted Papain fold Peptidases of DsRNA viruses and Eukaryotes), consists of predicted thiol peptidases with a circularly permuted papain-like fold. The inference of the likely DUB function of the PPPDE superfamily proteins is based on the fusions of the catalytic domain to Ub-binding PUG (PUB)/UBA domains and a novel alpha-helical Ub-associated domain (the PUL domain, after PLAP, Ufd3p and Lub1p).
PGK	Phosphoglycerate kinase. 
Porin_1	Gram-negative porin. 
WD-3	WD-repeat region. This entry is of a region of approximately 100 residues containing three WD repeats and six cysteine residues possibly as three cystine-bridges. These regions are contained within the Fancl protein in humans which is the putative E3 ubiquitin ligase subunit of the FA complex (Fanconi anaemia). Eight subunits of the Fanconi anaemia gene products form a multisubunit nuclear complex which is required for mono-ubiquitination of a downstream FA protein, FANCD2. The WD repeats are required for interaction with other subunits of the FA complex.
Caldesmon	Caldesmon. 
SNAPc_SNAP43	Small nuclear RNA activating complex (SNAPc), subunit SNAP43. Members of this family are part of the SNAPc complex required for the transcription of both RNA polymerase II and III small-nuclear RNA genes. They bind to the proximal sequence element (PSE), a non-TATA-box basal promoter element common to these 2 types of genes. Furthermore, they also recruit TBP and BRF2 to the U6 snRNA TATA box.
TolB_N	TolB amino-terminal domain. TolB is an essential periplasmic component of the tol-dependent translocation system. This function of this amino terminal domain is uncertain.
RNA_pol_delta	DNA-directed RNA polymerase delta subunit. The delta protein is a dispensable subunit of Bacillus subtilis RNA polymerase (RNAP) that has major effects on the biochemical properties of the purified enzyme. In the presence of delta, RNAP displays an increased specificity of transcription, a decreased affinity for nucleic acids, and an increased efficiency of RNA synthesis because of enhanced recycling. The delta protein, contains two distinct regions, an N-terminal domain and a glutamate and aspartate residue-rich carboxyl-terminal region.
Seipin	Putative adipose-regulatory protein (Seipin). Seipin is a protein of approximately 400 residues, in humans, which is the product of a gene homologous to the murine guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein) gamma-3 linked gene. This gene is implicated in the regulation of body fat distribution and insulin resistance and particularly in the auto-immune disease Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy type 2. Seipin has no similarity with other known proteins or consensus motifs that might predict its function, but it is predicted to contain two transmembrane domains at residues 28-49 and 237-258, in human, and a third transmembrane domain might be present at residues 155-173. Seipin may also be implicated in Silver spastic paraplegia syndrome and distal hereditary motor neuropathy type V.
DDA1	Det1 complexing ubiquitin ligase. DDA1 (De-etiolated 1, Damaged DNA binding protein 1 associated 1) protein binds strongly with DDB1 and Det1 forming a DDD complex which is part of the ubiquitin conjugation system.
Myotub-related	Myotubularin-related. This family represents a region within eukaryotic myotubularin-related proteins that is sometimes found with pfam02893. Myotubularin is a dual-specific lipid phosphatase that dephosphorylates phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol (3,5)-bi-phosphate. Mutations in gene encoding myotubularin-related proteins have been associated with disease.
Response_reg	Response regulator receiver domain. This domain receives the signal from the sensor partner in bacterial two-component systems. It is usually found N-terminal to a DNA binding effector domain.
Str_synth	Strictosidine synthase. Strictosidine synthase (E.C. 4.3.3.2) is a key enzyme in alkaloid biosynthesis. It catalyses the condensation of tryptamine with secologanin to form strictosidine.
DUF2417	Region of unknown function (DUF2417). This is a region of a family of proteins conserved in fungi some of whose members also have the Abhydrolase_1, pfam00561, domain in their sequence. The function of this region is not known.
DUF677	Protein of unknown function (DUF677). This family consists of AT14A like proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana. At14a has a small domain that has sequence similarities to integrins from fungi, insects and humans. Transcripts of At14a are found in all Arabidopsis tissues and localises partly to the plasma membrane.
DUF947	Domain of unknown function (DUF947). Family of eukaryotic proteins with unknown function.
DUF2486	Protein of unknown function (DUF2486). This family is made up of members from various Burkholderia spp. The function is unknown.
MIF	Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). 
Amelogenin	Amelogenin. Amelogenins play a role in biomineralisation. They seem to regulate the formation of crystallites during the secretory stage of tooth enamel development. thought to play a major role in the structural organisation and mineralisation of developing enamel. They are found in the extracellular matrix. Mutations in X-chromosomal amelogenin can cause Amelogenesis imperfecta.
Methyltransf_5	MraW methylase family. Members of this family are probably SAM dependent methyltransferases based on Escherichia coli mraW. This family appears to be related to pfam01596.
Iso_dh	Isocitrate/isopropylmalate dehydrogenase. 
Trm112p	Trm112p-like protein. The function of this family is uncertain. The bacterial members are about 60-70 amino acids in length and the eukaryotic examples are about 120 amino acids in length. The C terminus contains the strongest conservation. Trm112p is required for tRNA methylation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and is found in complexes with 2 tRNA methylases (TRM9 and TRM11) also with putative methyltransferase YDR140W. The zinc-finger protein Ynr046w is plurifunctional and a component of the eRF1 methyltransferase in yeast. The crystal structure of Ynr046w has been determined to 1.7 A resolution. It comprises a zinc-binding domain built from both the N- and C-terminal sequences and an inserted domain, absent from bacterial and archaeal orthologs of the protein, composed of three alpha-helices.
Rotamase	PPIC-type PPIASE domain. Rotamases increase the rate of protein folding by catalysing the interconversion of cis-proline and trans-proline.
Herpes_UL32	Herpesvirus large structural phosphoprotein UL32. The large phosphorylated protein (UL32-like) of herpes viruses is the polypeptide most frequently reactive in immuno-blotting analyses with antisera when compared with other viral proteins.
Met_synt_B12	Vitamin B12 dependent methionine synthase, activation domain. 
Orn_DAP_Arg_deC	Pyridoxal-dependent decarboxylase, C-terminal sheet domain. These pyridoxal-dependent decarboxylases act on ornithine, lysine, arginine and related substrates.
CwfJ_C_1	Protein similar to CwfJ C-terminus 1. This region is found in the N terminus of Schizosaccharomyces pombe protein CwfJ. CwfJ is part of the Cdc5p complex involved in mRNA splicing.
Rad1	Repair protein Rad1/Rec1/Rad17. 
ketoacyl-synt	Beta-ketoacyl synthase, N-terminal domain. The structure of beta-ketoacyl synthase is similar to that of the thiolase family (pfam00108) and also chalcone synthase. The active site of beta-ketoacyl synthase is located between the N and C-terminal domains. The N-terminal domain contains most of the structures involved in dimer formation and also the active site cysteine.
IBB	Importin beta binding domain. This family consists of the importin alpha (karyopherin alpha), importin beta (karyopherin beta) binding domain. The domain mediates formation of the importin alpha beta complex; required for classical NLS import of proteins into the nucleus, through the nuclear pore complex and across the nuclear envelope. Also in the alignment is the NLS of importin alpha which overlaps with the IBB domain.
Dirigent	Dirigent-like protein. This family contains a number of proteins which are induced during disease response in plants. Members of this family are involved in lignification.
DUF1275	Protein of unknown function (DUF1275). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 200 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown although a few members are thought to be membrane proteins.
DUF642	Protein of unknown function, DUF642. This family represents a conserved region found in a number of uncharacterised plant proteins.
Yae1_N	Essential protein Yae1, N terminal. Members of this family are found in the N terminal region of the essential protein Yae1. Their exact function has not, as yet, been determined.
Gene66	Gene 66 (IR5) protein. 
Carn_acyltransf	Choline/Carnitine o-acyltransferase. 
Ribosomal_L27	Ribosomal L27 protein. 
RFC1	Replication factor RFC1 C terminal domain. This is the C terminal domain of replication factor C, RFC1. RFC complexes hydrolyse ATP and load sliding clamps such as PCNA (proliferating cell nuclear antigen) onto double-stranded DNA. RFC1 is essential for RFC function in vivo.
Mitovir_RNA_pol	Mitovirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. This family consists of several Mitovirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase proteins. The family also contains fragment matches in the mitochondria of Arabidopsis thaliana.
GMC_oxred_N	GMC oxidoreductase. This family of proteins bind FAD as a cofactor.
Las1	Las1-like. Las1 is an essential nuclear protein involved in cell morphogenesis and cell surface growth.
Glyco_transf_17	Glycosyltransferase family 17. This family represents beta-1,4-mannosyl-glycoprotein beta-1,4-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (EC:2.4.1.144). This enzyme transfers the bisecting GlcNAc to the core mannose of complex N-glycans. The addition of this residue is regulated during development and has functional consequences for receptor signalling, cell adhesion, and tumour progression.
Adeno_52K	Adenoviral protein 52K. The adenoviral protein 52K (named after the earliest known 52kDa members) is a DNA-binding protein.
Methyltransf_11	Methyltransferase domain. Members of this family are SAM dependent methyltransferases.
Methyltransf_10	Protein of unknown function (DUF890). This family consists of several conserved hypothetical proteins from both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. The function of this family is unknown.
Ribosomal_S2	Ribosomal protein S2. 
Aha1_N	Activator of Hsp90 ATPase, N-terminal. Members of this family, which are predominantly found in the protein 'Activator of Hsp90 ATPase' adopt a secondary structure consisting of an N-terminal alpha-helix leading into a four-stranded meandering antiparallel beta-sheet, followed by a C-terminal alpha-helix. The two helices are packed together, with the beta-sheet curving around them. They bind to the molecular chaperone HSP82 and stimulate its ATPase activity.
MM_CoA_mutase	Methylmalonyl-CoA mutase. The enzyme methylmalonyl-CoA mutase is a member of a class of enzymes that uses coenzyme B12 (adenosylcobalamin) as a cofactor. The enzyme induces the formation of an adenosyl radical from the cofactor. This radical then initiates a free-radical rearrangement of its substrate, succinyl-CoA, to methylmalonyl-CoA.
Ribosomal_L39	Ribosomal L39 protein. 
FBA_1	F-box associated. Most of these proteins contain pfam00646 at the N terminus, suggesting that they are effectors linked with ubiquitination.
DNA_gyraseB	DNA gyrase B. This family represents the second domain of DNA gyrase B which has a ribosomal S5 domain 2-like fold. This family is structurally related to PF01119.
Autotransporter	Autotransporter beta-domain. Secretion of protein products occurs by a number of different pathways in bacteria. One of these pathways known as the type V pathway was first described for the IgA1 protease. The protein component that mediates secretion through the outer membrane is contained within the secreted protein itself, hence the proteins secreted in this way are called autotransporters. This family corresponds to the presumed integral membrane beta-barrel domain that transports the protein. This domain is found at the C terminus of the proteins it occurs in. The N terminus contains the variable passenger domain that is translocated across the membrane. Once the passenger domain is exported it is cleaved auto-catalytically in some proteins, in others a different protease is used and in some cases no cleavage occurs.
Terminase_1	Phage Terminase. The majority of the members of this family are bacteriophage proteins, several of which are thought to be terminase large subunit proteins. There are also a number of bacterial proteins of unknown function.
UCR_UQCRX_QCR9	Ubiquinol-cytochrome C reductase, UQCRX/QCR9 like. The UQCRX/QCR9 protein is the 9/10 subunit of complex III, encoding a protein of about 7-kDa. Deletion of QCR9 results in the inability of cells to grow on grow on-fermentable carbon source n yeast.
Bac_rhodopsin	Bacteriorhodopsin. 
Trigger_N	Bacterial trigger factor protein (TF). In the Escherichia coli cytosol, a fraction of the newly synthesised proteins requires the activity of molecular chaperones for folding to the native state. The major chaperones implicated in this folding process are the ribosome-associated Trigger Factor (TF), and the DnaK and GroEL chaperones with their respective co-chaperones. Trigger Factor is an ATP-independent chaperone and displays chaperone and peptidyl-prolyl-cis-trans-isomerase (PPIase) activities in vitro. It is composed of at least three domains, an N-terminal domain which mediates association with the large ribosomal subunit, a central substrate binding and PPIase domain with homology to FKBP proteins, and a C-terminal domain of unknown function. The positioning of TF at the peptide exit channel, together with its ability to interact with nascent chains as short as 57 residues renders TF a prime candidate for being the first chaperone that binds to the nascent polypeptide chains. This family represents the N-terminal region of the protein.
CRT10	CRT10. CRT10 is a transcriptional regulator of ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) genes. RNR catalyses the rate limiting step in dNTP synthesis. Mutations in CRT10 have been shown to enhance hydroxyurea resistance.
DUF1630	Protein of unknown function (DUF1630). The members of this family include sequences derived from hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. The region in question is approximately 550 residues long.
GSPII_E	Type II/IV secretion system protein. This family contains both type II and type IV pathway secretion proteins from bacteria. VirB11 ATPase is a subunit of the Agrobacterium tumefaciens transfer DNA (T-DNA) transfer system, a type IV secretion pathway required for delivery of T-DNA and effector proteins to plant cells during infection.
DUF2367	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2367). This is a highly conserved family of proteins which contains three pairs of cysteine residues within a length of 42 amino acids and is rich in proline residues towards the N-terminus. The function is unknown. Several members are putatively assigned as brain protein i3 but this was not validated.
Patatin	Patatin-like phospholipase. This family consists of various patatin glycoproteins from plants. The patatin protein accounts for up to 40% of the total soluble protein in potato tubers. Patatin is a storage protein but it also has the enzymatic activity of lipid acyl hydrolase, catalysing the cleavage of fatty acids from membrane lipids. Members of this family have been found also in vertebrates.
Urm1	Urm1 (Ubiquitin related modifier). Urm1 is a ubiquitin related protein that modifies proteins in the yeast ubiquitin-like pathway urmylation. Structural comparisons and phylogenetic analysis of the ubiquitin superfamily has indicated that Urm1 has the most conserved structural and sequence features of the common ancestor of the entire superfamily.
Ribosomal_L35Ae	Ribosomal protein L35Ae. 
Corona_M	Coronavirus M matrix/glycoprotein. This family consists of various coronavirus matrix proteins which are transmembrane glycoproteins. The M protein or E1 glycoprotein is The coronavirus M protein is implicated in virus assembly. The E1 viral membrane protein is required for formation of the viral envelope and is transported via the Golgi complex.
DUF1421	Protein of unknown function (DUF1421). This family represents a conserved region approximately 350 residues long within a number of plant proteins of unknown function.
DUF2094	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2094). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
DUF1618	Protein of unknown function (DUF1618). The members of this family are mainly hypothetical proteins expressed by Oryza sativa.
GH3	GH3 auxin-responsive promoter. 
DUF499	Protein of unknown function (DUF499). Family of uncharacterised hypothetical prokaryotic proteins.
PCNA_N	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen, N-terminal domain. N-terminal and C-terminal domains of PCNA are topologically identical. Three PCNA molecules are tightly associated to form a closed ring encircling duplex DNA.
RE_HaeIII	HaeIII restriction endonuclease. This family includes the HaeIII (recognises and cleaves GG^CC) restriction endonuclease.
DUF1681	Protein of unknown function (DUF1681). This family is composed of sequences derived from a number of hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
DUF1301	Protein of unknown function (DUF1301). This family contains a number of eukaryotic proteins of unknown function that are approximately 160 residues long.
PS_Dcarbxylase	Phosphatidylserine decarboxylase. This is a family of phosphatidylserine decarboxylases, EC:4.1.1.65. These enzymes catalyse the reaction: Phosphatidyl-L-serine <=> phosphatidylethanolamine + CO2. Phosphatidylserine decarboxylase plays a central role in the biosynthesis of aminophospholipids by converting phosphatidylserine to phosphatidylethanolamine.
FTCD_N	Formiminotransferase domain, N-terminal subdomain. The formiminotransferase (FT) domain of formiminotransferase- cyclodeaminase (FTCD) forms a homodimer, and each protomer comprises two subdomains. The N-terminal subdomain is made up of a six-stranded mixed beta-pleated sheet and five alpha helices, which are arranged on the external surface of the beta sheet. This, in turn, faces the beta-sheet of the C-terminal subdomain to form a double beta-sheet layer. The two subdomains are separated by a short linker sequence, which is not thought to be any more flexible than the remainder of the molecule. The substrate is predicted to form a number of contacts with residues found in both the N-terminal and C-terminal subdomains.
COG4	COG4 transport protein. This region is found in yeast oligomeric golgi complex component 4 which is involved in ER to Golgi an intra Golgi transport.
SPB_interacting	Spindle pole body interacting protein. Yeast YOR129C has been shown to interact with the outer plaque of the spindle pole body.
UFC1	Ubiquitin-fold modifier-conjugating enzyme 1. Ubiquitin-like (UBL) post-translational modifiers are covalently linked to most, if not all, target protein(s) through an enzymatic cascade analogous to ubiquitylation, consisting of E1 (activating), E2 (conjugating), and E3 (ligating) enzymes. Ubiquitin-fold modifier 1 (Ufm1) a ubiquitin-like protein is activated by a novel E1-like enzyme, Uba5, by forming a high-energy thioester bond. Activated Ufm1 is then transferred to its cognate E2-like enzyme, Ufc1, in a similar thioester linkage. This family represents the E2-like enzyme.
DNA_primase_S	Eukaryotic and archaeal DNA primase small subunit. DNA primase synthesises the RNA primers for the Okazaki fragments in lagging strand DNA synthesis. DNA primase is a heterodimer of large and small subunits. This family also includes baculovirus late expression factor 1 or LEF-1 proteins. Baculovirus LEF-1 is a DNA primase enzyme. Bacterial DNA primase adopts a different fold to archaeal and eukaryotic primases.
PsbK	Photosystem II 4 kDa reaction centre component. This family consists of various photosystem II 4 kDa reaction centre components (PsbK) from plant and Cyanobacteria. The photosystem II reaction centre is responsible for catalysing the core photosynthesis reaction the light-induced splitting of water and the consequential release of dioxygen. In C. reinhardtii the psbK product is required for the stable assembly and/or stability of the photosystem II complex.
CNH	CNH domain. Domain found in NIK1-like kinase, mouse citron and yeast ROM1, ROM2. Unpublished observations.
FlgN	FlgN protein. This family includes the FlgN protein and export chaperone involved in flagellar synthesis.
RNA_pol_Rpb2_1	RNA polymerase beta subunit. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain forms one of the two distinctive lobes of the Rpb2 structure. This domain is also known as the protrusion domain. The other lobe (pfam04561) is nested within this domain.
DUF185	Uncharacterized ACR, COG1565. This family contains several uncharacterised proteins. One member has been described as an ATP synthase beta subunit transcription termination factor rho protein.
DUF866	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF866). This family consists of a number of hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function with an average length of around 165 residues.
Ten_N	Teneurin Intracellular Region. This family is found in the intracellular N-terminal region of the Teneurin family of proteins. These proteins are 'pair-rule' genes and are involved in tissue patterning, specifically probably neural patterning. The intracellular domain is cleaved in response to homophilic interaction of the extracellular domain, and translocates to the nucleus. Here it probably carries out to some transcriptional regulatory activity. The length of this region and the conservation suggests that there may be two structural domains here (personal obs:C Yeats).
PhnA	PhnA protein. 
AlaDh_PNT_C	Alanine dehydrogenase/PNT, C-terminal domain. This family now also contains the lysine 2-oxoglutarate reductases.
Tat	Transactivating regulatory protein (Tat). The retroviral Tat protein binds to the Tar RNA. This activates transcriptional initiation and elongation from the LTR promoter. Binding is mediated by an arginine rich region.
Mob1_phocein	Mob1/phocein family. Mob1 is an essential Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein, identified from a two-hybrid screen, that binds Mps1p, a protein kinase essential for spindle pole body duplication and mitotic checkpoint regulation. Mob1 contains no known structural motifs; however MOB1 is a member of a conserved gene family and shares sequence similarity with a nonessential yeast gene, MOB2. Mob1 is a phosphoprotein in vivo and a substrate for the Mps1p kinase in vitro. Conditional alleles of MOB1 cause a late nuclear division arrest at restrictive temperature. This family also includes phocein, a rat protein that by yeast two hybrid interacts with striatin.
DUF1193	Protein of unknown function (DUF1193). This family represents the C-terminus of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. Family members contain two conserved motifs: DRHHYE and QCC, as well as a number of conserved cysteine residues.
RNA_polI_A34	DNA-directed RNA polymerase I subunit RPA34.5. This is a family of proteins conserved from yeasts to human. Subunit A34.5 of RNA polymerase I is a non-essential subunit which is thought to help Pol I overcome topological constraints imposed on ribosomal DNA during the process of transcription.
PVL_ORF50	PVL ORF-50-like family. This is a family of sequences found in both bacteria and bacteriophages. This region is approximately 130 residues long and in some cases is found as part of the PVL (Panton-Valentine leukocidin) group of genes, which encode a member of the leukocidin group of bacterial toxins that kill leukocytes by creation of pores in the cell membrane. PVL appears to be a virulence factor associated with a number of human diseases.
UDPGT	UDP-glucoronosyl and UDP-glucosyl transferase. 
DUF1223	Protein of unknown function (DUF1223). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins of around 250 residues in length which are found in both plants and bacteria. The function of this family is unknown.
Rubella_Capsid	Rubella capsid protein. Rubella virus is an enveloped positive-strand RNA virus of the family Togaviridae. Virions are composed of three structural proteins: a capsid and two membrane-spanning glycoproteins, E2 and E1. During virus assembly, the capsid interacts with genomic RNA to form nucleocapsids. It has been discovered that capsid phosphorylation serves to negatively regulate binding of viral genomic RNA. This may delay the initiation of nucleocapsid assembly until sufficient amounts of virus glycoproteins accumulate at the budding site and/or prevent non-specific binding to cellular RNA when levels of genomic RNA are low. It follows that at a late stage in replication, the capsid may undergo dephosphorylation before nucleocapsid assembly occurs.
eIF2A	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2A. This is a family of eukaryotic translation initiation factors.
DUF1639	Protein of unknown function (DUF1639). This approximately 50 residue region is found in a number of sequences derived from hypothetical plant proteins. This region features a highly basic 5 amino-acid stretch towards its centre.
rve	Integrase core domain. Integrase mediates integration of a DNA copy of the viral genome into the host chromosome. Integrase is composed of three domains. The amino-terminal domain is a zinc binding domain pfam02022. This domain is the central catalytic domain. The carboxyl terminal domain that is a non-specific DNA binding domain pfam00552. The catalytic domain acts as an endonuclease when two nucleotides are removed from the 3' ends of the blunt-ended viral DNA made by reverse transcription. This domain also catalyses the DNA strand transfer reaction of the 3' ends of the viral DNA to the 5' ends of the integration site.
Biotin_lipoyl	Biotin-requiring enzyme. This family covers two Prosite entries, the conserved lysine residue binds biotin in one group and lipoic acid in the other. May not recognise the Glycine cleavage system H proteins.
PV-1	PV-1 protein (PLVAP). This family consists of several PV-1 (PLVAP) proteins which seem to be specific to mammals. PV-1 is a novel protein component of the endothelial fenestral and stomatal diaphragms. The function of this family is unknown.
Exosortase_EpsH	Transmembrane exosortase (Exosortase_EpsH). Members of this family are designated exosortase, analogous to sortase in cell wall sorting mediated by LPXTG domains in Gram-positive bacteria. The phylogenetic distribution of the proteins in this entry is nearly perfectly correlated with the distribution of the proteins having the PEP-CTERM anchor motif, IPR013424. Members of this entry are integral membrane proteins with eight predicted transmembrane helices in common. Some members of this family have long trailing sequences past the region described by this model. This model does not include the region of the first predicted transmembrane region. The best characterised member is EpsH of Methylobacillus sp. 12S, where it is part of a locus associated with biosynthesis of the exopolysaccharide methanol-an.
FRQ	Frequency clock protein. The frequency clock protein, is the central component of the frq-based circadian negative feedback loop, regulates various aspects of the circadian clock in Neurospora crassa. This protein has been shown to interact with itself via a coiled-coil.
DUF2181	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2181). This is region of approximately 250 residues conserved from worms to humans. Its function is unknown.
DUF2495	Protein of unknown function (DUF2495). Members of this family come from a number of different bacterial orders. The function is not known.
FGase	N-formylglutamate amidohydrolase. Formylglutamate amidohydrolase (FGase) catalyses the terminal reaction in the five-step pathway for histidine utilisation in Pseudomonas putida. By this action, N-formyl-L-glutamate (FG) is hydrolysed to produce L-glutamate plus formate.
RNA_pol_Rpc82	RNA polymerase III subunit RPC82. This family consists of several DNA-directed RNA polymerase III polypeptides which are related to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RPC82 protein. RNA polymerase C (III) promotes the transcription of tRNA and 5S RNA genes. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the enzyme is composed of 15 subunits, ranging from 160 to about 10 kDa.
DUF2305	Uncharacterised conserved protein (DUF2305). This family of proteins is conserved from plants to humans. The function is unknown.
DAGK_prokar	Prokaryotic diacylglycerol kinase. 
Ribonuclease_BN	Ribonuclease BN-like family. This family contains integral membrane proteins with 5 to 6 predicted transmembrane spans. The family include ribonuclease BN that is involved in tRNA maturation. This family of proteins does not seem to contain any completely conserved polar residues that would be expected in a nuclease enzyme, suggesting that many members of this family may not have this catalytic activity (Bateman A pers. obs.).
DUF1771	Domain of unknown function (DUF1771). This domain is always found adjacent to pfam01713.
Cupin_1	Cupin. This family represents the conserved barrel domain of the 'cupin' superfamily ('cupa' is the Latin term for a small barrel). This family contains 11S and 7S plant seed storage proteins, and germins. Plant seed storage proteins provide the major nitrogen source for the developing plant.
Histidinol_dh	Histidinol dehydrogenase. 
Lum_binding	Lumazine binding domain. This domain binds to derivatives of lumazine in some proteins. Some proteins have lost the residues involved in binding lumazine.
RNA_pol	DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. This is a family of single chain RNA polymerases.
Fe_bilin_red	Ferredoxin-dependent bilin reductase. This family consists of several different but closely related proteins which include phycocyanobilin:ferredoxin oxidoreductase EC:1.3.7.5 (PcyA), 15,16-dihydrobiliverdin:ferredoxin oxidoreductase EC:1.3.7.2 (PebA) and phycoerythrobilin:ferredoxin oxidoreductase EC:1.3.7.3 (PebB). Phytobilins are linear tetrapyrrole precursors of the light-harvesting prosthetic groups of the phytochrome photoreceptors of plants and the phycobiliprotein photosynthetic antennae of cyanobacteria, red algae, and cryptomonads. It is known that that phytobilins are synthesised from heme via the intermediary of biliverdin IX alpha (BV), which is reduced subsequently by ferredoxin-dependent bilin reductases with different double-bond specificities.
SNF5	SNF5 / SMARCB1 / INI1. SNF5 is a component of the yeast SWI/SNF complex, which is an ATP-dependent nucleosome-remodelling complex that regulates the transcription of a subset of yeast genes. SNF5 is a key component of all SWI/SNF-class complexes characterised so far. This family consists of the conserved region of SNF5, including a direct repeat motif. SNF5 is essential for the assembly promoter targeting and chromatin remodelling activity of the SWI-SNF complex. SNF5 is also known as SMARCB1, for SWI/SNF-related, matrix-associated, actin-dependent regulator of chromatin, subfamily b, member 1, and also INI1 for integrase interactor 1. Loss-of function mutations in SNF5 are thought to contribute to oncogenesis in malignant rhabdoid tumours (MRTs).
DUF980	Protein of unknown function (DUF980). Family of uncharacterised bacterial sequences.
Peptidase_S21	Assemblin (Peptidase family S21). 
DUF150	Uncharacterised BCR, YhbC family COG0779. 
Phospholip_A2_1	Phospholipase A2. Phospholipase A2 releases fatty acids from the second carbon group of glycerol. Perhaps the best known members are secreted snake venoms, but also found in secreted pancreatic and membrane-associated forms. Structure is all-alpha, with two core disulfide-linked helices and a calcium-binding loop. This alignment represents the major family of PLA2s. A second minor family, defined by the honeybee venom PLA2 PDB:1POC and related sequences from Gila monsters (Heloderma), is not recognised. This minor family conserves the core helix pair but is substantially different elsewhere. The PROSITE pattern PA2_HIS, specific to the first core helix, recognises both families.
AdoMet_Synthase	S-adenosylmethionine synthetase (AdoMet synthetase). This family consists of several archaebacterial S-adenosylmethionine synthetase C(AdoMet synthetase or MAT) (EC 2.5.1.6). S-Adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) occupies a central role in the metabolism of all cells. The biological roles of AdoMet include acting as the primary methyl group donor, as a precursor to the polyamines, and as a progenitor of a 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical. S-Adenosylmethionine synthetase catalyses the only known route of AdoMet biosynthesis. The synthetic process occurs in a unique reaction in which the complete triphosphate chain is displaced from ATP and a sulfonium ion formed. MATs from various organisms contain ~400-amino acid polypeptide chains.
Pentapeptide	Pentapeptide repeats (8 copies). These repeats are found in many cyanobacterial proteins. The repeats were first identified in hglK. The function of these repeats is unknown. The structure of this repeat has been predicted to be a beta-helix. The repeat can be approximately described as A(D/N)LXX, where X can be any amino acid.
MBF1	Multiprotein bridging factor 1. This domain is found in the multiprotein bridging factor 1 (MBF1) which forms a heterodimer with MBF2. It has been shown to make direct contact with the TATA-box binding protein (TBP) and interacts with Ftz-F1, stabilising the Ftz-F1-DNA complex. It is also found in the endothelial differentiation-related factor (EDF-1). Human EDF-1 is involved in the repression of endothelial differentiation, interacts with CaM and is phosphorylated by PKC. The domain is found in a wide range of eukaryotic proteins including metazoans, fungi and plants. A helix-turn-helix motif (pfam01381) is found to its C-terminus.
Fibrillarin	Fibrillarin. 
Clusterin	Clusterin. 
DUF1086	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF1086). This family consists of several eukaryotic domains of unknown function which are present in chromodomain helicase DNA binding proteins. This domain is often found in conjunction with pfam00176, pfam00271, pfam06465, pfam00385 and pfam00628.
vATP-synt_AC39	ATP synthase (C/AC39) subunit. This family includes the AC39 subunit from vacuolar ATP synthase, and the C subunit from archaebacterial ATP synthase. The family also includes subunit C from the Sodium transporting ATP synthase from Enterococcus hirae.
DUF1286	Protein of unknown function (DUF1286). This family consists of several hypothetical archaeal proteins of around 120 residues in length. All members of this family seem to be Sulfolobus species specific. The function of this family is unknown.
Mab-21	Mab-21 protein. 
Orthopox_A5L	Orthopoxvirus A5L protein. This family consists of several Orthopoxvirus A5L proteins. The vaccinia virus WR A5L open reading frame (corresponding to open reading frame A4L in vaccinia virus Copenhagen) encodes an immunodominant late protein found in the core of the vaccinia virion. The A5 protein appears to be required for the immature virion to form the brick-shaped intracellular mature virion.
Sugar_transport	Sugar transport protein. This is a family of bacterial sugar transporters approximately 300 residues long. Members include glucose uptake proteins, ribose transport proteins, and several putative and hypothetical membrane proteins probably involved in sugar transport across bacterial membranes.
Sugar_tr	Sugar (and other) transporter. 
P16-Arc	ARP2/3 complex 16 kDa subunit (p16-Arc). The Arp2/3 protein complex has been implicated in the control of actin polymerisation. The human complex consists of seven subunits which include the actin related proteins Arp2 and Arp3, and five others referred to as p41-Arc, p34-Arc, p21-Arc, p20-Arc, and p16-Arc. The precise function of p16-Arc is currently unknown. Its structure consists of a single domain containing a bundle of seven alpha helices.
PsbP	PsbP. This family consists of the 23 kDa subunit of oxygen evolving system of photosystem II or PsbP from various plants (where it is encoded by the nuclear genome) and Cyanobacteria. The 23 KDa PsbP protein is required for PSII to be fully operational in vivo, it increases the affinity of the water oxidation site for Cl- and provides the conditions required for high affinity binding of Ca2+.
Androgen_recep	Androgen receptor. 
TolA	TolA protein. This family consists of several bacterial TolA proteins as well as two eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. Tol proteins are involved in the translocation of group A colicins. Colicins are bacterial protein toxins, which are active against Escherichia coli and other related species (See pfam01024). TolA is anchored to the cytoplasmic membrane by a single membrane spanning segment near the N-terminus, leaving most of the protein exposed to the periplasm.
Carb_kinase	Carbohydrate kinase. This family is related to pfam02110 and pfam00294 implying that it also is a carbohydrate kinase. (personal obs Yeats C).
DUF1510	Protein of unknown function (DUF1510). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 200 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF599	Protein of unknown function, DUF599. This family includes several uncharacterised proteins.
HDAC_interact	Histone deacetylase (HDAC) interacting. This domain is found on transcriptional regulators. It forms interactions with histone deacetylases.
GAT	GAT domain. The GAT domain is responsible for binding of GGA proteins to several members of the ARF family including ARF1 and ARF3. The GAT domain stabilises membrane bound ARF1 in its GTP bound state, by interfering with GAP proteins.
6PGD	6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, C-terminal domain. This family represents the C-terminal all-alpha domain of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. The domain contains two structural repeats of 5 helices each.
DUF77	Domain of unknown function DUF77. Domain of unknown function. The crystal structure of two of these members shows that this domain has a ferredoxin like fold and is likely to exists as at least homodimers. Sulphate ions are are located at the dimer interfaces, which are thought to confer additional stability. Although the function of this domain remains to be identified, its structure suggests a role in protein-protein interactions possibly regulated by the binding of small-molecule ligands.
GRAM	GRAM domain. The GRAM domain is found in in glucosyltransferases, myotubularins and other putative membrane-associated proteins.
DUF568	Protein of unknown function (DUF568). Family of uncharacterised plant proteins.
Rrn6	RNA polymerase I-specific transcription-initiation factor. RNA polymerase I-specific transcription-initiation factor Rrn6 and Rrn7 represent components of a multisubunit transcription factor essential for the initiation of rDNA transcription by Pol I. These proteins are found in fungi.
CPSase_sm_chain	Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase small chain, CPSase domain. The carbamoyl-phosphate synthase domain is in the amino terminus of protein. Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase catalyses the ATP-dependent synthesis of carbamyl-phosphate from glutamine or ammonia and bicarbonate. This important enzyme initiates both the urea cycle and the biosynthesis of arginine and/or pyrimidines. The carbamoyl-phosphate synthase (CPS) enzyme in prokaryotes is a heterodimer of a small and large chain. The small chain promotes the hydrolysis of glutamine to ammonia, which is used by the large chain to synthesise carbamoyl phosphate. See pfam00289. The small chain has a GATase domain in the carboxyl terminus. See pfam00117.
DUF1751	Eukaryotic integral membrane protein (DUF1751). This domain is found in eukaryotic integral membrane proteins. YOL107W, a Saccharomyces cerervisiae protein, has been shown to localise COP II vesicles.
Keratin_assoc	Keratinocyte-associated protein 2. Members of this family comprise various keratinocyte-associated proteins. Their exact function has not, as yet, been determined.
DMP1	Dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1). This family consists of several mammalian dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1) sequences. The dentin matrix acidic phosphoprotein 1 (DMP1) gene has been mapped to human chromosome 4q21. DMP1 is a bone and teeth specific protein initially identified from mineralised dentin. DMP1 is primarily localised in the nuclear compartment of undifferentiated osteoblasts. In the nucleus, DMP1 acts as a transcriptional component for activation of osteoblast-specific genes like osteocalcin. During the early phase of osteoblast maturation, Ca(2+) surges into the nucleus from the cytoplasm, triggering the phosphorylation of DMP1 by a nuclear isoform of casein kinase II. This phosphorylated DMP1 is then exported out into the extracellular matrix, where it regulates nucleation of hydroxyapatite. DMP1 is a unique molecule that initiates osteoblast differentiation by transcription in the nucleus and orchestrates mineralised matrix formation extracellularly, at later stages of osteoblast maturation. The DMP1 gene has been found to be ectopically expressed in lung cancer although the reason for this is unknown.
mTERF	mTERF. This family contains one sequence of known function Human mitochondrial transcription termination factor (mTERF) the rest of the family consists of hypothetical proteins none of which have any functional information. mTERF is a multizipper protein possessing three putative leucine zippers one of which is bipartite. The protein binds DNA as a monomer. The leucine zippers are not implicated in a dimerisation role as in other leucine zippers.
TIM21	TIM21. TIM21 interacts with the outer mitochondrial TOM complex and promotes the insertion of proteins into the inner mitochondrial membrane.
DUF686	Protein of unknown function (DUF686). This family consists of several uncharacterised Baculovirus proteins.
EB_dh	Ethylbenzene dehydrogenase. Eythylbenzene dehydrogenase is a heterotrimer of three subunits that catalyses the anaerobic degradation of hydrocarbons. The alpha subunit contains the catalytic centre as a Molybdenum cofactor-complex. This removes an electron-pair from the hydrocarbon and passes it along an electron transport system involving iron-sulphur complexes held in the beta subunit and a Haem b molecule contained in the gamma subunit. The electron-pair is then subsequently passed to an as yet unknown receiver. The enzyme is found in a variety of different bacteria.
V_ATPase_I	V-type ATPase 116kDa subunit family. This family consists of the 116kDa V-type ATPase (vacuolar (H+)-ATPases) subunits, as well as V-type ATP synthase subunit i. The V-type ATPases family are proton pumps that acidify intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells for example yeast central vacuoles, clathrin-coated and synaptic vesicles. They have important roles in membrane trafficking processes. The 116kDa subunit (subunit a) in the V-type ATPase is part of the V0 functional domain responsible for proton transport. The a subunit is a transmembrane glycoprotein with multiple putative transmembrane helices it has a hydrophilic amino terminal and a hydrophobic carboxy terminal. It has roles in proton transport and assembly of the V-type ATPase complex. This subunit is encoded by two homologous gene in yeast VPH1 and STV1.
FAD_binding_8	FAD-binding domain. 
SRP19	SRP19 protein. The signal recognition particle (SRP) binds to the signal peptide of proteins as they are being translated. The binding of the SRP halts translation and the complex is then transported to the endoplasmic reticulum's cytoplasmic surface. The SRP then aids translocation of the protein through the ER membrane. The SRP is a ribonucleoprotein that is composed of a small RNA and several proteins. One of these proteins is the SRP19 protein (Sec65 in yeast).
OMP_19	Bacterial outer membrane lipoprotein omp19. This family consists of several bacterial outer membrane lipoprotein omp19 sequences.
FAD_binding_4	FAD binding domain. This family consists of various enzymes that use FAD as a co-factor, most of the enzymes are similar to oxygen oxidoreductase. One of the enzymes Vanillyl-alcohol oxidase (VAO) has a solved structure, the alignment includes the FAD binding site, called the PP-loop, between residues 99-110. The FAD molecule is covalently bound in the known structure, however the residue that links to the FAD is not in the alignment. VAO catalyses the oxidation of a wide variety of substrates, ranging form aromatic amines to 4-alkylphenols. Other members of this family include D-lactate dehydrogenase, this enzyme catalyses the conversion of D-lactate to pyruvate using FAD as a co-factor; mitomycin radical oxidase, this enzyme oxidises the reduced form of mitomycins and is involved in mitomycin resistance. This family includes MurB an UDP-N-acetylenolpyruvoylglucosamine reductase enzyme EC:1.1.1.158. This enzyme is involved in the biosynthesis of peptidoglycan.
DUF112	Integral membrane protein DUF112. Members of this prokaryotic family have no known function.
Fer2_2	[2Fe-2S] binding domain. 
VDE	Violaxanthin de-epoxidase (VDE). This family represents a conserved region approximately 150 residues long within plant violaxanthin de-epoxidase (VDE). In higher plants, violaxanthin de-epoxidase forms part of a conserved system that dissipates excess energy as heat in the light-harvesting complexes of photosystem II (PSII), thus protecting them from photo-inhibitory damage.
Chalcone	Chalcone-flavanone isomerase. Chalcone-flavanone isomerase is a plant enzyme responsible for the isomerisation of chalcone to naringenin, a key step in the biosynthesis of flavonoids.
Ehrlichia_rpt	Ehrlichia tandem repeat (Ehrlichia_rpt). This entry represents 77 residues of an 80 amino acid (240 nucleotide) tandem repeat, found in a variable number of copies in an immunodominant outer membrane protein of Ehrlichia chaffeensis, a tick-borne obligate intracellular pathogen.
WIYLD	WIYLD domain. This presumed domain has been predicted to contain three alpha helices. The domain was named the WIYLD domain based on the pattern of most conserved residues. The domain appears to be specific to plant SET-domain proteins.
Lectin_N	Hepatic lectin, N-terminal domain. 
DTW	DTW domain. This presumed domain is found in bacterial and eukaryotic proteins. Its function is unknown. The domain contains multiple conserved motifs including a DTXW motif that this domain has been named after.
Complex1_30kDa	Respiratory-chain NADH dehydrogenase, 30 Kd subunit. 
AIRS_C	AIR synthase related protein, C-terminal domain. This family includes Hydrogen expression/formation protein HypE, AIR synthases EC:6.3.3.1, FGAM synthase EC:6.3.5.3 and selenide, water dikinase EC:2.7.9.3. The function of the C-terminal domain of AIR synthase is unclear, but the cleft formed between N and C domains is postulated as a sulphate binding site.
CRS1_YhbY	CRS1 / YhbY (CRM) domain. Escherichia coli YhbY is associated with pre-50S ribosomal subunits, which implies a function in ribosome assembly. GFP fused to a single-domain CRM protein from maize localises to the nucleolus, suggesting that an analogous activity may have been retained in plants. A CRM domain containing protein in plant chloroplasts has been shown to function in group I and II intron splicing. In vitro experiments with an isolated maize CRM domain have shown it to have RNA binding activity. These and other results suggest that the CRM domain evolved in the context of ribosome function prior to the divergence of Archaea and Bacteria, that this function has been maintained in extant prokaryotes, and that the domain was recruited to serve as an RNA binding module during the evolution of plant genomes. YhbY has a fold similar to that of the C-terminal domain of translation initiation factor 3 (IF3C), which binds to 16S rRNA in the 30S ribosome.
Glyco_hydro_28	Glycosyl hydrolases family 28. Glycosyl hydrolase family 28 includes polygalacturonase EC:3.2.1.15 as well as rhamnogalacturonase A(RGase A), EC:3.2.1.-. These enzymes is important in cell wall metabolism.
FeoB_N	Ferrous iron transport protein B. Escherichia coli has an iron(II) transport system (feo) which may make an important contribution to the iron supply of the cell under anaerobic conditions. FeoB has been identified as part of this transport system. FeoB is a large 700-800 amino acid integral membrane protein. The N terminus contains a P-loop motif suggesting that iron transport may be ATP dependent.
Glu_syn_central	Glutamate synthase central domain. The central domain of glutamate synthase connects the amino terminal amidotransferase domain with the FMN-binding domain and has an alpha / beta overall topology.
TraB_2	TraB protein. This family consists of several TraB proteins which seem to be found exclusively in Agrobacterium species. TraB is known to be involved in conjugal transfer. This family does not appear to be related to pfam01963 or pfam06447.
ALAD	Delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase. 
DUF1992	Domain of unknown function (DUF1992). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised.
DUF1625	Protein of unknown function (DUF1625). Sequences making up this family are derived from hypothetical proteins expressed by both prokaryotic and eukaryotic species. The region in question is approximately 250 residues long.
GTP_EFTU	Elongation factor Tu GTP binding domain. This domain contains a P-loop motif, also found in several other families such as pfam00071, pfam00025 and pfam00063. Elongation factor Tu consists of three structural domains, this plus two C-terminal beta barrel domains.
TonB	Gram-negative bacterial tonB protein. 
Srg	Srg family chemoreceptor. 
OTCace	Aspartate/ornithine carbamoyltransferase, Asp/Orn binding domain. 
Transketolase_C	Transketolase, C-terminal domain. The C-terminal domain of transketolase has been proposed as a regulatory molecule binding site.
CobN-Mg_chel	CobN/Magnesium Chelatase. This family contains a domain common to the cobN protein and to magnesium protoporphyrin chelatase. CobN is implicated in the conversion of precorrin-2 to cobyrinic acid. Magnesium protoporphyrin chelatase is involved in chlorophyll biosynthesis.
HECT	HECT-domain (ubiquitin-transferase). The name HECT comes from Homologous to the E6-AP Carboxyl Terminus.
Acyl_CoA_thio	Acyl-CoA thioesterase. This family represents the thioesterase II domain. Two copies of this domain are found in a number of acyl-CoA thioesterases.
OprD	outer membrane porin, OprD family. This family includes outer membrane proteins related to OprD. OprD has been described as a serine type peptidase. However the proposed catalytic residues are not conserved suggesting that many of these proteins are not peptidases.
UPF0259	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0259). 
TAS2R	Mammalian taste receptor protein (TAS2R). This family consists of several forms of mammalian taste receptor proteins (TAS2Rs). TAS2Rs are G protein-coupled receptors expressed in subsets of taste receptor cells of the tongue and palate epithelia and are organised in the genome in clusters. The proteins are genetically linked to loci that influence bitter perception in mice and humans.
Ribosomal_S16	Ribosomal protein S16. 
Clp_N	Clp amino terminal domain. This short domain is found in one or two copies at the amino terminus of ClpA and ClpB proteins from bacteria and eukaryotes. The function of these domains is uncertain but they may form a protein binding site.
Sedlin_N	Sedlin, N-terminal conserved region. Mutations in this protein are associated with the X-linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda syndrome (OMIM:313400). This family represents an N-terminal conserved region.
DUF1254	Protein of unknown function (DUF1254). This family represents a conserved region about 130 residues long within hypothetical proteins of unknown function. Family members include eukaryotic, bacterial and archaeal proteins.
Cmc1	Cytochrome c oxidase biogenesis protein Cmc1 like. Cmc1 is a metallo-chaperone like protein which is known to localise to the inner mitochondrial membrane in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It is essential for full expression of cytochrome c oxidase and respiration. Cmc1 contains two Cx9C motifs and is able to bind copper(I). Cmc1 is thought to play a role in mitochondrial copper trafficking and transfer to cytochrome c oxidase.
7TM_GPCR_Srt	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srt. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srt is a member of the Srg superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
Topoisom_I	Eukaryotic DNA topoisomerase I, catalytic core. Topoisomerase I promotes the relaxation of DNA superhelical tension by introducing a transient single-stranded break in duplex DNA and are vital for the processes of replication, transcription, and recombination.
RecA	recA bacterial DNA recombination protein. RecA is a DNA-dependent ATPase and functions in DNA repair systems. RecA protein catalyses an ATP-dependent DNA strand-exchange reaction that is the central step in the repair of dsDNA breaks by homologous recombination.
TPR_MLP1_2	TPR/MLP1/MLP2-like protein. The sequences featured in this family are similar to a region of human TPR protein and to yeast myosin-like proteins 1 (MLP1) and 2 (MLP2). These proteins share a number of features; for example, they all have coiled-coil regions and all three are associated with nuclear pores. TPR is thought to be a component of nuclear pore complex- attached intranuclear filaments, and is implicated in nuclear protein import. Moreover, its N-terminal region is involved in the activation of oncogenic kinases, possibly by mediating the dimerisation of kinase domains or by targeting these kinases to the nuclear pore complex. MLP1 and MLP2 are involved in the process of telomere length regulation, where they are thought to interact with proteins such as Tel1p and modulate their activity.
H2TH	Formamidopyrimidine-DNA glycosylase H2TH domain. Formamidopyrimidine-DNA glycosylase (Fpg) is a DNA repair enzyme that excises oxidised purines from damaged DNA. This family is the central domain containing the DNA-binding helix-two turn-helix domain.
PSD1	Protein of unknown function (DUF1553). A family of proteins found in Rhodopirellula baltica.
DUF834	Domain of unknown function (DUF834). This short presumed domain is found in a large number of hypothetical plant proteins. The domain is quite rich in conserved glycine residues. It occurs in some putative transposons but currently has no known function.
ATP_bind_3	PP-loop family. This family of proteins belongs to the PP-loop superfamily.
FIST	FIST N domain. The FIST N domain is a novel sensory domain, which is present in signal transduction proteins from Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya. Chromosomal proximity of FIST-encoding genes to those coding for proteins involved in amino acid metabolism and transport suggest that FIST domains bind small ligands, such as amino acids.
DUF2522	Protein of unknown function (DUF2522). This family of proteins with unknown function appears to be restricted to Bacillus.
DUF2317	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2317). Members of this family of hypothetical bacterial proteins have no known function.
GMP_synt_C	GMP synthase C terminal domain. GMP synthetase is a glutamine amidotransferase from the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. This family is the C-terminal domain specific to the GMP synthases EC:6.3.5.2. In prokaryotes this domain mediates dimerisation. Eukaryotic GMP synthases are monomers. This domain in eukaryotes includes several large insertions that may form globular domains.
PRKCSH	Glucosidase II beta subunit-like protein. The sequences found in this family are similar to a region found in the beta-subunit of glucosidase II, which is also known as protein kinase C substrate 80K-H (PRKCSH). The enzyme catalyses the sequential removal of two alpha-1,3-linked glucose residues in the second step of N-linked oligosaccharide processing. The beta subunit is required for the solubility and stability of the heterodimeric enzyme, and is involved in retaining the enzyme within the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in the gene coding for PRKCSH have been found to be involved in the development of autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease (ADPLD), but the precise role the protein has in the pathogenesis of this disease is unknown. This family also includes an ER sensor for misfolded glycoproteins and is therefore likely to be a generic sugar binding domain.
DUF2114	Uncharacterized protein conserved in archaea (DUF2114). This domain, found in various hypothetical archaeal proteins, has no known function.
GSH_synth_ATP	Eukaryotic glutathione synthase, ATP binding domain. 
DUF588	Domain of unknown function (DUF588). This family of plant proteins contains a domain that may have a catalytic activity. It has a conserved arginine and aspartate that could form an active site. These proteins are predicted to contain 3 or 4 transmembrane helices.
DUF151	Uncharacterised ACR, COG1259. 
Transposase_5	Transposase. Transposase proteins are necessary for efficient DNA transposition. This family includes the amino-terminal region of Tc1, Tc1A, Tc1B and Tc2B transposases of C.elegans. The region encompasses the specific DNA binding and second DNA recognition domains as well as an amino-terminal region of the catalytic domain of Tc3. Tc3 is a member of the Tc1/mariner family of transposable elements.
IucA_IucC	IucA / IucC family. IucA and IucC catalyse discrete steps in biosynthesis of the siderophore aerobactin from N epsilon-acetyl-N epsilon-hydroxylysine and citrate.
STN	Secretin and TonB N terminus short domain. This is a short domain is found at the N-terminus of the Secretins of the bacterial type II/III secretory system as well as the TonB-dependent receptor proteins. These proteins are involved in TonB-dependent active uptake of selective substrates.
Fijivirus_P9-2	Fijivirus P9-2 protein. This family consists of several Fijivirus specific P9-2 proteins from Rice black streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV) and Fiji disease virus. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF2365	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2365). This is a family of conserved proteins found from nematodes to humans. The function is unknown.
Auxin_resp	Auxin response factor. A conserved region of auxin-responsive transcription factors.
Protamine_3	Spermatozal protamine family. This family consists of the spermatozal protamines. Spermatozal protamines play an important role in remodelling of the sperm chromatin during mammalian spermiogenesis. Nuclear elongation and chromatin condensation are concomitant with modifications in the basic protein complement associated with DNA. Somatic histones are initially replaced by testis -specific histone variants, then by transitional proteins, and ultimately by protamines.
zf-C2H2	Zinc finger, C2H2 type. The C2H2 zinc finger is the classical zinc finger domain. The two conserved cysteines and histidines co-ordinate a zinc ion. The following pattern describes the zinc finger. #-X-C-X(1-5)-C-X3-#-X5-#-X2-H-X(3-6)-[H/C] Where X can be any amino acid, and numbers in brackets indicate the number of residues. The positions marked # are those that are important for the stable fold of the zinc finger. The final position can be either his or cys. The C2H2 zinc finger is composed of two short beta strands followed by an alpha helix. The amino terminal part of the helix binds the major groove in DNA binding zinc fingers. The accepted consensus binding sequence for Sp1 is usually defined by the asymmetric hexanucleotide core GGGCGG but this sequence does not include, among others, the GAG (=CTC) repeat that constitutes a high-affinity site for Sp1 binding to the wt1 promoter.
Vicilin_N	Vicilin N terminal region. This region is found in plant seed storage proteins, N-terminal to the Cupin domain (pfam00190). In Macadamia integrifolia, this region is processed into peptides of approximately 50 amino acids containing a C-X-X-X-C-(10-12)X-C-X-X-X-C motif. These peptides exhibit antimicrobial activity in vitro.
DAGK_cat	Diacylglycerol kinase catalytic domain. Diacylglycerol (DAG) is a second messenger that acts as a protein kinase C activator. The catalytic domain is assumed from the finding of bacterial homologues. YegS is the Escherichia coli protein in this family whose crystal structure reveals an active site in the inter-domain cleft formed by four conserved sequence motifs, revealing a novel metal-binding site. The residues of this site are conserved across the family.
MreB_Mbl	MreB/Mbl protein. This family consists of bacterial MreB and Mbl proteins as well as two related archaeal sequences. MreB is known to be a rod shape-determining protein in bacteria and goes to make up the bacterial cytoskeleton. Genes coding for MreB/Mbl are only found in elongated bacteria, not in coccoid forms. It has been speculated that constituents of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton (tubulin, actin) may have evolved from prokaryotic precursor proteins closely related to today's bacterial proteins FtsZ and MreB/Mbl.
DUF1129	Protein of unknown function (DUF1129). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
Syja_N	SacI homology domain. This Pfam family represents a protein domain which shows homology to the yeast protein SacI. The SacI homology domain is most notably found at the amino terminal of the inositol 5'-phosphatase synaptojanin.
MutS_V	MutS domain V. This domain is found in proteins of the MutS family (DNA mismatch repair proteins) and is found associated with pfam01624, pfam05188, pfam05192 and pfam05190. The mutS family of proteins is named after the Salmonella typhimurium MutS protein involved in mismatch repair; other members of the family included the eukaryotic MSH 1,2,3, 4,5 and 6 proteins. These have various roles in DNA repair and recombination. Human MSH has been implicated in non-polyposis colorectal carcinoma (HNPCC) and is a mismatch binding protein. The aligned region corresponds with domain V of Thermus aquaticus MutS as characterised in, which contains a Walker A motif, and is structurally similar to the ATPase domain of ABC transporters.
DUF2476	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0572). This is a family of proteins of unknown function. The family is rich in proline residues.
Metallothionein	Metallothionein. This family consists of metallothioneins from several worm and sea urchin species. Metallothioneins are low molecular weight, cysteine rich proteins known to be involved in heavy metal detoxification and homeostasis.
BCCT	BCCT family transporter. 
Self-incomp_S1	Plant self-incompatibility protein S1. This family consists of a series of plant proteins which are related to the Papaver rhoeas S1 self-incompatibility protein. Self incompatibility (SI) is the single most important outbreeding device found in angiosperms and is a mechanism that regulates the acceptance or rejection of pollen. S1 is known to exhibit specific pollen-inhibitory properties.
Frag1	Frag1/DRAM/Sfk1 family. This family includes Frag1, DRAM and Sfk1 proteins. Frag1 (FGF receptor activating protein 1) is a protein that is conserved from fungi to humans. There are four potential iso-prenylation sites throughout the peptide, viz CILW, CIIW and CIGL. Frag1 is a membrane-spanning protein that is ubiquitously expressed in adult tissues suggesting an important cellular function. Dram is a family of proteins conserved from nematodes to humans with six hydrophobic transmembrane regions and an Endoplasmic Reticulum signal peptide. It is a lysosomal protein that induces macro-autophagy as an effector of p53-mediated death, where p53 is the tumour-suppressor gene that is frequently mutated in cancer. Expression of Dram is stress-induced. This region is also part of a family of small plasma membrane proteins, referred to as Sfk1, that may act together with or upstream of Stt4p to generate normal levels of the essential phospholipid PI4P, thus allowing proper localisation of Stt4p to the actin cytoskeleton.
RAP1	Rhoptry-associated protein 1 (RAP-1). This family consists of several rhoptry-associated protein 1 (RAP-1) sequences which appear to be specific to Plasmodium falciparum.
Caleosin	Caleosin related protein. This family contains plant proteins related to caleosin. Caleosins contain calcium-binding domains and have an oleosin-like association with lipid bodies. Caleosins are present at relatively low levels and are mainly bound to microsomal membrane fractions at the early stages of seed development. As the seeds mature, overall levels of caleosins increased dramatically and they were associated almost exclusively with storage lipid bodies. This family is probably related to EF hands pfam00036.
Cse1	Cse1. This domain is present in Cse1 nuclear export receptor proteins. Cse1 mediates the nuclear export of importin alpha. This domain contains HEAT repeats.
Ribosomal_L15e	Ribosomal L15. 
Malic_M	Malic enzyme, NAD binding domain. 
Cyto_ox_2	Cytochrome oxidase subunit II. This Family consists of cytochrome bd type terminal oxidases that catalyses Quinol dependent, Na+ independent oxygen uptake. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins and contain a protoheame IX centre B558. One member of the family is implicated in having an important role in microaerobic nitrogen fixation in the enteric bacterium Klebsiella pneumoniae.
Alpha-amylase	Alpha amylase, catalytic domain. Alpha amylase is classified as family 13 of the glycosyl hydrolases. The structure is an 8 stranded alpha/beta barrel containing the active site, interrupted by a ~70 a.a. calcium-binding domain protruding between beta strand 3 and alpha helix 3, and a carboxyl-terminal Greek key beta-barrel domain.
K_tetra	K+ channel tetramerisation domain. The N-terminal, cytoplasmic tetramerisation domain (T1) of voltage-gated K+ channels encodes molecular determinants for subfamily-specific assembly of alpha-subunits into functional tetrameric channels. It is distantly related to the BTB/POZ domain pfam00651.
FliM	Flagellar motor switch protein FliM. 
RWP-RK	RWP-RK domain. This domain is named RWP-RK after a conserved motif at the C terminus of the presumed domain. The domain is found in algal minus dominance proteins as well as plant proteins involved in nitrogen-controlled development.
Cytochrom_B_C	Cytochrome b(C-terminal)/b6/petD. 
Sec15	Exocyst complex subunit Sec15-like. 
DUF608	Protein of unknown function, DUF608. This family represents a conserved region with a pankaryotic distribution in a number of uncharacterised proteins.
PDGF	Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). 
Myc_N	Myc amino-terminal region. The myc family belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper class of transcription factors, see pfam00010. Myc forms a heterodimer with Max, and this complex regulates cell growth through direct activation of genes involved in cell replication.
RNA_pol_L	RNA polymerase Rpb3/Rpb11 dimerisation domain. The two eukaryotic subunits Rpb3 and Rpb11 dimerise to from a platform onto which the other subunits of the RNA polymerase assemble (D/L in archaea). The prokaryotic equivalent to the Rpb3/Rpb11 platform is the alpha-alpha dimer. The dimerisation domain of the alpha subunit/Rpb3 is interrupted by an insert domain (pfam01000). Some of the alpha subunits also contain iron-sulphur binding domains (pfam00037). Rpb11 is found as a continuous domain. Members of this family include: alpha subunit from eubacteria alpha subunits from chloroplasts Rpb3 subunits from eukaryotes Rpb11 subunits from eukaryotes RpoD subunits from archaeal RpoL subunits from archaeal
DUF1978	Domain of unknown function (DUF1978). Members of this family are found in various hypothetical proteins produced by the bacterium Chlamydia pneumoniae. Their exact function has not, as yet, been identified.
ELK	ELK domain. This domain is required for the nuclear localisation of these proteins. All of these proteins are members of the Tale/Knox homeodomain family, a subfamily within homeobox pfam00046.
Microvir_H	Microvirus H protein (pilot protein). A single molecule of H protein is found on each of the 12 spikes on the microvirus shell. H is involved in the ejection of the phage DNA, and at least one copy is injected into the host's periplasmic space along with the ssDNA viral genome. Part of H is thought to lie outside the shell, where it recognises lipopolysaccharide from virus-sensitive strains. Part of H may lie within the capsid, since mutations in H can influence the DNA ejection mechanism by affecting the DNA-protein interactions. H may span the capsid through the hydrophilic channels formed by G proteins.
PUB	PUB domain. The PUB (also known as PUG) domain is found in peptide N-glycanase where it functions as a AAA ATPase binding domain. This domain is also found on other proteins linked to the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
Upf2	Up-frameshift suppressor 2. Transcripts harbouring premature signals for translation termination are recognised and rapidly degraded by eukaryotic cells through a pathway known as nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, three trans-acting factors (Upf1 to Upf3) are required for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay.
DUF547	Protein of unknown function, DUF547. Family of uncharacterised proteins from Caenorhabditis elegans and A. thaliana.
UPAR_LY6	u-PAR/Ly-6 domain. This extracellular disulphide bond rich domain is related to pfam00087.
Nckap1	Membrane-associated apoptosis protein. Expression of this protein was found to be markedly reduced in patients with Alzheimer's disease. It is involved in the regulation of actin polymerisation in the brain as part of a WAVE2 signalling complex.
DUF463	YcjX-like family, DUF463. Some members of this family are thought to possess an ATP-binding domain towards their N-terminus.
L6_membrane	L6 membrane protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic L6 membrane proteins. L6, IL-TMP, and TM4SF5 are cell surface proteins predicted to have four transmembrane domains. Previous sequence analysis led to their assignment as members of the tetraspanin superfamily it has now been found that that they are not significantly related to genuine tetraspanins, but instead constitute their own L6 family. Several members of this family have been implicated in human cancer.
COX1	Cytochrome C and Quinol oxidase polypeptide I. 
Amidohydro_3	Amidohydrolase family. 
CO_dh	CO dehydrogenase beta subunit/acetyl-CoA synthase epsilon subunit. This family consists of Carbon monoxide dehydrogenase I/II beta subunit EC:1.2.99.2 and acetyl-CoA synthase epsilon subunit. Carbon monoxide beta subunit catalyses the reaction: CO + H2O + acceptor <=> CO2 + reduced acceptor.
Ribosomal_S13_N	Ribosomal S13/S15 N-terminal domain. This domain is found at the N-terminus of ribosomal S13 and S15 proteins. This domain is also identified as NUC021.
GvpD	GvpD gas vesicle protein. This family consists of several archaeal GvpD gas vesicle proteins. GvpD is thought to be involved in the regulation of gas vesicle formation.
RepB-RCR_reg	Replication regulatory protein RepB. This is a family of proteins which regulate replication of rolling circle replication (RCR) plasmids that have a double-strand replication origin (dso). Regulation of replication of RCR plasmids occurs mainly at initiation of leading strand synthesis at the dso, such that Rep protein concentration controls plasmid replication.
Band_7	SPFH domain / Band 7 family. This family has been called SPFH, Band 7 or PHB domain.
Indigoidine_A	Indigoidine synthase A like protein. Indigoidine is a blue pigment synthesised by Erwinia chrysanthemi implicated in pathogenicity and protection from oxidative stress. IdgA is involved in indigoidine biosynthesis, but its specific function is unknown.
GPDPase_memb	Membrane domain of glycerophosphoryl diester phosphodiesterase. Members of this family comprise the membrane domain of the prokaryotic enzyme glycerophosphoryl diester phosphodiesterase.
Glyco_hydro_2_C	Glycosyl hydrolases family 2, TIM barrel domain. This family contains beta-galactosidase, beta-mannosidase and beta-glucuronidase activities.
CcmB	CcmB protein. CcmB is the product of one of a cluster of Ccm genes that are necessary for cytochrome c biosynthesis in eubacteria. Expression of these proteins is induced when the organisms are grown under anaerobic conditions with nitrate or nitrite as the final electron acceptor. CcmB is required for the export of haem to the periplasm.
Transposase_20	Transposase IS116/IS110/IS902 family. Transposases are needed for efficient transposition of the insertion sequence or transposon DNA. This family includes transposases for IS116, IS110 and IS902. This region is often found with pfam01548. The exact function of this region is uncertain.
DUF975	Protein of unknown function (DUF975). Family of uncharacterised bacterial proteins.
CNF1	Rho-activating domain of cytotoxic necrotizing factor. This family consists of several bacterial cytotoxic necrotizing factor proteins as well as related dermonecrotic toxin (DNT) from Bordetella species. Cytotoxic necrotizing factor 1 (CNF1) causes necrosis of rabbit skin and re-organisation of the actin cytoskeleton in cultured cells. Bordetella dermonecrotic toxin (DNT) stimulates the assembly of actin stress fibres and focal adhesions by deamidating or polyaminating Gln63 of the small GTPase Rho. DNT is an A-B toxin which is composed of an N-terminal receptor-binding (B) domain and a C-terminal enzymatically active (A) domain.
DPBB_1	Rare lipoprotein A (RlpA)-like double-psi beta-barrel. Rare lipoprotein A (RlpA) contains a conserved region that has the double-psi beta-barrel (DPBB) fold. The function of RlpA is not well understood, but it has been shown to act as a prc mutant suppressor in Escherichia coli. The DPBB fold is often an enzymatic domain. The members of this family are quite diverse, and if catalytic this family may contain several different functions. Another example of this domain is found in the N terminus of pollen allergen.
NMT_C	Myristoyl-CoA:protein N-myristoyltransferase, C-terminal domain. The N and C-terminal domains of NMT are structurally similar, each adopting an acyl-CoA N-acyltransferase-like fold.
CHL4	Kinetochore protein CHL4 like. CHL4 is a protein involved in chromosome segregation. It is a component of the central kinetochore which mediates the attachment of the centromere to the mitotic spindle.
Dyp_perox	Dyp-type peroxidase family. This family of dye-decolourising peroxidases lack a typical heme-binding region.
Chloroa_b-bind	Chlorophyll A-B binding protein. 
Daxx	Daxx Family. The Daxx protein (also known as the Fas-binding protein) is thought to play a role in apoptosis, but precise role played by Daxx remains to be determined. Daxx forms a complex with Axin.
Mg-por_mtran_C	Magnesium-protoporphyrin IX methyltransferase C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 100 residues) of bacterial and eukaryotic Magnesium-protoporphyrin IX methyltransferase (EC:2.1.1.11). This converts magnesium-protoporphyrin IX to magnesium-protoporphyrin IX methylester using S-adenosyl-L-methionine as a cofactor.
Baculo_11_kDa	Baculovirus 11 kDa family. Family of uncharacterised Baculovirus proteins that are all about 11 kDa in size.
DUF2462	Protein of unknown function (DUF2462). This protein is highly conserved, but its function is unknown. It can be isolated from HeLa cell nucleoli and is found to be homologous with Leydig cell tumour protein whose function is unknown.
MCLC	Mid-1-related chloride channel (MCLC). This family consists of several mid-1-related chloride channels. mid-1-related chloride channel (MCLC) proteins function as a chloride channel when incorporated in the planar lipid bilayer.
Glyco_hydro_17	Glycosyl hydrolases family 17. 
CbiG	CbiG. Members of this family are involved in cobalamin synthesis. A member from Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 has been designated cbiH but in fact represents a fusion between cbiH and cbiG. As other multi-functional proteins involved in cobalamin biosynthesis catalyse adjacent steps in the pathway, including CysG, CobL (CbiET), CobIJ and CobA-HemD, it is therefore possible that CbiG catalyses a reaction step adjacent to CbiH. In the anaerobic pathway such a step could be the formation of a gamma lactone, which is thought to help to mediate the anaerobic ring contraction process.
Laminin_I	Laminin Domain I. coiled-coil structure. It has been suggested that the domains I and II from laminin A, B1 and B2 may come together to form a triple helical coiled-coil structure.
PNP_UDP_1	Phosphorylase superfamily. Members of this family include: purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) Uridine phosphorylase (UdRPase) 5'-methylthioadenosine phosphorylase (MTA phosphorylase)
BTB	BTB/POZ domain. The BTB (for BR-C, ttk and bab) or POZ (for Pox virus and Zinc finger) domain is present near the N-terminus of a fraction of zinc finger (pfam00096) proteins and in proteins that contain the pfam01344 motif such as Kelch and a family of pox virus proteins. The BTB/POZ domain mediates homomeric dimerisation and in some instances heteromeric dimerisation. The structure of the dimerised PLZF BTB/POZ domain has been solved and consists of a tightly intertwined homodimer. The central scaffolding of the protein is made up of a cluster of alpha-helices flanked by short beta-sheets at both the top and bottom of the molecule. POZ domains from several zinc finger proteins have been shown to mediate transcriptional repression and to interact with components of histone deacetylase co-repressor complexes including N-CoR and SMRT. The POZ or BTB domain is also known as BR-C/Ttk or ZiN
MerR	MerR family regulatory protein. 
DUF234	Archaea bacterial proteins of unknown function. 
Phytochelatin_C	Domain of unknown function (DUF1984). Members of this family of functionally uncharacterised domains are found at the C-terminus of plant phytochelatin synthases.
Polysacc_synt_2	Polysaccharide biosynthesis protein. This is a family of diverse bacterial polysaccharide biosynthesis proteins including the CapD protein, WalL protein mannosyl-transferase and several putative epimerases (e.g. WbiI).
DisA-linker	DisA bacterial checkpoint controller linker region. The DisA protein is a bacterial checkpoint protein that dimerises into an octameric complex. The protein consists of three distinct domains. the first, N-terminal region, from 1-145 is globular and is represented by family DisA_N, pfam02457; the next 146-289 residues is this domain that consists of an elongated bundle of three alpha helices (alpha-6, alpha-10, and alpha-11), one side of which carries an additional three helices (alpha7-9), thus forming a spine like-linker between domains 1 and 3. The C-terminal residues of domain 3 are family HHH, pfam00633, the specific DNA-binding domain. The octameric complex thus has structurally linked nucleotide-binding and DNA-binding HhH domains and the nucleotide-binding domains are bound to a cyclic di-adenosine phosphate such that DisA is a specific di-adenylate cyclase. The di-adenylate cyclase activity is strongly suppressed by binding to branched DNA, but not to duplex or single-stranded DNA, suggesting a role for DisA as a monitor of the presence of stalled replication forks or recombination intermediates via DNA structure-modulated c-di-AMP synthesis.
RNA_pol_Rpb2_4	RNA polymerase Rpb2, domain 4. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). Domain 4, is also known as the external 2 domain.
DUF220	Domain of unknown function DUF220. This is family consists of a region in several Arabidopsis thaliana hypothetical proteins none of which have any known function. The aligned region contains two cysteine residues.
zf-TAZ	TAZ zinc finger. The TAZ2 domain of CBP binds to other transcription factors such as the p53 tumour suppressor protein, E1A oncoprotein, MyoD, and GATA-1. The zinc coordinating motif that is necessary for binding to target DNA sequences consists of HCCC.
Na_H_antiporter	Na+/H+ antiporter family. This family includes integral membrane proteins, some of which are NA+/H+ antiporters.
DUF342	Protein of unknown function (DUF342). This family of bacterial proteins has no known function. The proteins are in the region of 500-600 amino acid residues in length.
TTKRSYEDQ	Predicted coiled-coil domain-containing protein. This is the C-terminal 500 amino acids of a family of proteins with a predicted coiled-coil domain conserved from nematodes to humans. It carries a characteristic TTKRSYEDQ sequence-motif. The function is not known.
CITED	CITED. CITED, CBP/p300-interacting transactivator with ED-rich tail, are characterised by a conserved 32-amino acid sequence at the C-terminus. CITED proteins do not bind DNA directly and are thought to function as transcriptional co-activators.
7TM_GPCR_Srh	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srh. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srh is part of the Str superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
PAH	Paired amphipathic helix repeat. This family contains the paired amphipathic helix repeat. The family contains the yeast SIN3 gene (also known as SDI1) that is a negative regulator of the yeast HO gene. This repeat may be distantly related to the helix-loop-helix motif, which mediate protein-protein interactions.
tRNA_SAD	Threonyl and Alanyl tRNA synthetase second additional domain. The catalytically active from of threonyl/alanyl tRNA synthetase is a dimer. Within the tRNA synthetase class II dimer, the bound tRNA interacts with both monomers making specific interactions with the catalytic domain, the C-terminal domain, and this domain (the second additional domain). The second additional domain is comprised of a pair of perpendicularly orientated antiparallel beta sheets, of four and three strands, respectively, that surround a central alpha helix that forms the core of the domain.
UPF0081	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0081). 
DEAD_2	DEAD_2. This represents a conserved region within a number of RAD3-like DNA-binding helicases that are seemingly ubiquitous - members include proteins of eukaryotic, bacterial and archaeal origin. RAD3 is involved in nucleotide excision repair, and forms part of the transcription factor TFIIH in yeast.
SSrecog	Structure-specific recognition protein (SSRP1). SSRP1 has been implicated in transcriptional initiation and elongation and in DNA replication and repair.
Folate_rec	Folate receptor family. This family includes the folate receptor which binds to folate and reduced folic acid derivatives and mediates delivery of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate to the interior of cells. These proteins are attached to the membrane by a GPI-anchor. The proteins contain 16 conserved cysteines that form eight disulphide bridges.
DUF2009	Protein of unknown function (DUF2009). This is a eukaryotic family of proteins with unknown function.
efhand_like	Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C, efhand-like. Members of this family are predominantly found in phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C. They adopt a structure consisting of a core of four alpha helices, in an EF like fold, and are required for functioning of the enzyme.
PA	PA domain. The PA (Protease associated) domain is found as an insert domain in diverse proteases. The PA domain is also found in a plant vacuolar sorting receptor and members of the RZF family. It has been suggested that this domain forms a lid-like structure that covers the active site in active proteases, and is involved in protein recognition in vacuolar sorting receptors.
DCP1	Dcp1-like decapping family. An essential step in mRNA turnover is decapping. In yeast, two proteins have been identified that are essential for decapping, Dcp1 (this family) and Dcp2 (pfam05026). The precise role of these proteins in the decapping reaction have not been established. Evidence suggests that the Dcp1 may enhance the function of Dcp2.
Glyco_hydro_4	Family 4 glycosyl hydrolase. 
HSCB_C	HSCB C-terminal oligomerisation domain. This domain is the HSCB C-terminal oligomerisation domain and is found on co-chaperone proteins.
NDUFB10	NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit 10. NDUFB10 is a family of conserved proteins of up to 180 residues. It is one of the 41 protein subunits within the hydrophobic fraction of the NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I), a multiprotein complex located in the inner mitochondrial membrane whose main function is the transport of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone, which is accompanied by translocation of protons from the mitochondrial matrix to the intermembrane space. NDUFB10 is encoded in the nucleus.
LacI	Bacterial regulatory proteins, lacI family. 
DUF1761	Protein of unknown function (DUF1761). Family of conserved fungal proteins with unknown function.
Amidase	Amidase. 
Semenogelin	Semenogelin. This family consists of several mammalian semenogelin (I and II) proteins. Freshly ejaculated human semen has the appearance of a loose gel in which the predominant structural protein components are the seminal vesicle secreted semenogelins (Sg).
DUF1003	Protein of unknown function (DUF1003). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
Ceramidase_alk	Neutral/alkaline non-lysosomal ceramidase. This family represents a group of neutral/alkaline ceramidases found in both bacteria and eukaryotes.
DUF2152	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2152). This is a family of proteins conserved from worms to humans. Its function is unknown.
PLDc	Phospholipase D Active site motif. Phosphatidylcholine-hydrolysing phospholipase D (PLD) isoforms are activated by ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs). PLD produces phosphatidic acid from phosphatidylcholine, which may be essential for the formation of certain types of transport vesicles or may be constitutive vesicular transport to signal transduction pathways. PC-hydrolysing PLD is a homologue of cardiolipin synthase, phosphatidylserine synthase, bacterial PLDs, and viral proteins. Each of these appears to possess a domain duplication which is apparent by the presence of two motifs containing well-conserved histidine, lysine, and/or asparagine residues which may contribute to the active site. aspartic acid. An Escherichia coli endonuclease (nuc) and similar proteins appear to be PLD homologues but possess only one of these motifs. The profile contained here represents only the putative active site regions, since an accurate multiple alignment of the repeat units has not been achieved.
TPT	Triose-phosphate Transporter family. This family includes transporters with a specificity for triose phosphate.
MTTB	Trimethylamine methyltransferase (MTTB). This family consists of several trimethylamine methyltransferase (MTTB) (EC:2.1.1.-) proteins from numerous Rhizobium and Methanosarcina species.
Anth_synt_I_N	Anthranilate synthase component I, N terminal region. Anthranilate synthase (EC:4.1.3.27) catalyses the first step in the biosynthesis of tryptophan. Component I catalyses the formation of anthranilate using ammonia and chorismate. The catalytic site lies in the adjacent region, described in the chorismate binding enzyme family (pfam00425). This region is involved in feedback inhibition by tryptophan. This family also contains a region of Para-aminobenzoate synthase component I (EC 4.1.3.-).
ERO1	Endoplasmic Reticulum Oxidoreductin 1 (ERO1). Members of this family are required for the formation of disulphide bonds in the ER.
Peptidase_S13	D-Ala-D-Ala carboxypeptidase 3 (S13) family. 
DUF2169	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2169). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
Ribosomal_L18e	Eukaryotic ribosomal protein L18. 
Beta-lactamase	Beta-lactamase. This family appears to be distantly related to pfam00905 and PF00768 D-alanyl-D-alanine carboxypeptidase.
Flavi_NS5	Flavivirus RNA-directed RNA polymerase. Flaviviruses produce a polyprotein from the ssRNA genome. This protein is also known as NS5. This RNA-directed RNA polymerase possesses a number of short regions and motifs homologous to other RNA-directed RNA polymerases.
vMSA	Major surface antigen from hepadnavirus. 
TMP_2	Prophage tail length tape measure protein. This family represents a conserved region located towards the N-terminal end of prophage tail length tape measure protein (TMP). TMP is important for assembly of phage tails and involved in tail length determination. Mutated forms TMP cause tail fibres to be shortened.
FYDLN_acid	Protein of unknown function (FYDLN_acid). Members of this family are bacterial proteins with a conserved motif [KR]FYDLN, sometimes flanked by a pair of CXXC motifs, followed by a long region of low complexity sequence in which roughly half the residues are Asp and Glu, including multiple runs of five or more acidic residues. The function of members of this family is unknown.
Oxidored_q4	NADH-ubiquinone/plastoquinone oxidoreductase, chain 3. 
ETF_QO	Electron transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase. Electron-transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO) in the inner mitochondrial membrane accepts electrons from electron-transfer flavoprotein which is located in the mitochondrial matrix and reduces ubiquinone in the mitochondrial membrane. The two redox centres in the protein, FAD and a [4Fe4S] cluster, are present in a 64-kDa monomer.
Peptidase_S46	Peptidase S46. Dipeptidyl-peptidase 7 (DPP-7) is the best characterised member of this family. It is a serine peptidase that is located on the cell surface and is predicted to have two N-terminal transmembrane domains.
zf-Sec23_Sec24	Sec23/Sec24 zinc finger. COPII-coated vesicles carry proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi complex. This vesicular transport can be reconstituted by using three cytosolic components containing five proteins: the small GTPase Sar1p, the Sec23p/24p complex, and the Sec13p/Sec31p complex. This domain is found to be zinc binding domain.
DUF92	Integral membrane protein DUF92. Members of this family have several predicted transmembrane helices. The function of these prokaryotic proteins is unknown.
SirB	Invasion gene expression up-regulator, SirB. SirB up-regulates Salmonella typhimurium invasion gene transcription. It is, however, not essential for the expression of these genes. Its function is unknown.
polyprenyl_synt	Polyprenyl synthetase. 
5_nucleotid	5' nucleotidase family. This family of eukaryotic proteins includes 5' nucleotidase enzymes, such as purine 5'-nucleotidase EC:3.1.3.5.
CDI	Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Cell cycle progression is negatively controlled by cyclin-dependent kinases inhibitors (CDIs). CDIs are involved in cell cycle arrest at the G1 phase.
Chorismate_bind	chorismate binding enzyme. This family includes the catalytic regions of the chorismate binding enzymes anthranilate synthase, isochorismate synthase, aminodeoxychorismate synthase and para-aminobenzoate synthase.
COX6A	Cytochrome c oxidase subunit VIa. 
DIE2_ALG10	DIE2/ALG10 family. The ALG10 protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes the alpha-1,2 glucosyltransferase of the endoplasmic reticulum. This protein has been characterised in rat as potassium channel regulator 1.
Troponin	Troponin. Troponin (Tn) contains three subunits, Ca2+ binding (TnC), inhibitory (TnI), and tropomyosin binding (TnT). this Pfam contains members of the TnT subunit. Troponin is a complex of three proteins, Ca2+ binding (TnC), inhibitory (TnI), and tropomyosin binding (TnT). The troponin complex regulates Ca++ induced muscle contraction. This family includes troponin T and troponin I. Troponin I binds to actin and troponin T binds to tropomyosin.
DiS_P_DiS	Bacterial Peptidase A24 N-terminal domain. This family is found at the N-terminus of the prepilin peptidases (pfam01478). It's function has not been specifically determined; however some of the family have been characterised as bifunctional, and this domain may contain the N-methylation activity (EC:2.1.1.-). It consists of an intracellular region between a pair of transmembrane. This region contains an invariant proline and two almost fully conserved disulphide bridges - hence the name DiS-P-DiS. The cysteines have been shown to be essential to the overall function of the enzyme in, but their role was incorrectly ascribed.
MRP_L53	39S ribosomal protein L53/MRP-L53. MRP-L53 is also known as Mrp144. It is part of the 39S ribosome.
PLU-1	PLU-1-like protein. Sequences in this family bear similarity to the central region of PLU-1. This is a nuclear protein that may have a role in DNA-binding and transcription, and is closely associated with the malignant phenotype of breast cancer. This region is found in various other Jumonji/ARID domain-containing proteins (see pfam02373, pfam01388).
RelA_SpoT	Region found in RelA / SpoT proteins. This region of unknown function is found in RelA and SpoT of Escherichia coli, and their homologues in plants and in other eubacteria. RelA is a guanosine 3',5'-bis-pyrophosphate (ppGpp) synthetase (EC:2.7.6.5) while SpoT is thought to be a bifunctional enzyme catalysing both ppGpp synthesis and degradation (ppGpp 3'-pyrophosphohydrolase, (EC:3.1.7.2)). This region is often found in association with HD (pfam01966), a metal-dependent phosphohydrolase, TGS (pfam02824) which is a possible nucleotide-binding region, and the ACT regulatory domain (pfam01842).
UDP-g_GGTase	UDP-glucose:Glycoprotein Glucosyltransferase. The N-terminal region of this group of proteins is required for correct folding of the ER UDP-Glc: glucosyltransferase.
PAR1	PAR1 protein. This family consists of several plant specific PAR1 proteins from Nicotiana tabacum and Arabidopsis thaliana. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF569	Protein of unknown function (DUF569). Family of hypothetical proteins. Some family members contain a two copies of the region.
DNA_mis_repair	DNA mismatch repair protein, C-terminal domain. This family represents the C-terminal domain of the mutL/hexB/PMS1 family. This domain has a ribosomal S5 domain 2-like fold.
Glycos_transf_2	Glycosyl transferase family 2. Diverse family, transferring sugar from UDP-glucose, UDP-N-acetyl- galactosamine, GDP-mannose or CDP-abequose, to a range of substrates including cellulose, dolichol phosphate and teichoic acids.
Endonuclease_1	Endonuclease I. Bacterial periplasmic or secreted endonuclease I (EC:3.1.21.1) Escherichia coli endonuclease I (EndoI) is a sequence independent endonuclease located in the periplasm. It is inhibited by different RNA species. It is thought to normally generate double strand breaks in DNA, except in the presence of high salt concentrations and RNA, when it generates single strand breaks in DNA. Its biological role is unknown. Other family members are known to be extracellular. This family also includes a non-specific, Mg2+ activated ribonuclease precursor.
IspA	Intracellular septation protein A. 
DUF1109	Protein of unknown function (DUF1109). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
HNF-1B_C	Hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 (HNF-1), beta isoform C terminus. This family consists of a region found within the alpha isoform and at the C terminus of the beta isoform of the homeobox-containing transcription factor of HNF-1. Different isoforms of HNF-1 are generated by the differential use of polyadenylation sites and by alternative splicing. The C-terminal region of HNF-1 is responsible for the activation of transcription. Mutations and polymorphisms in HNF-1 cause the type 3 form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY3).
NTF2	Nuclear transport factor 2 (NTF2) domain. This family includes the NTF2-like Delta-5-3-ketosteroid isomerase proteins.
PMI_typeI	Phosphomannose isomerase type I. This is a family of Phosphomannose isomerase type I enzymes (EC 5.3.1.8).
Utp21	Utp21 specific WD40 associated putative domain. Utp21 is a subunit of U3 snoRNP, which is essential for synthesis of 18S rRNA.
DUF177	Uncharacterized ACR, COG1399. 
PaaA_PaaC	Phenylacetic acid catabolic protein. This family includes proteins such as PaaA and PaaC that are part of a catabolic pathway of phenylacetic acid. These proteins may form part of a dioxygenase complex.
DUF191	Uncharacterized ACR, COG2107. 
AMNp_N	Bacterial AMP nucleoside phosphorylase N-terminus. This is the N-terminal domain of bacterial AMP nucleoside phosphorylase (AMNp). The N- and C-termini form distinct domains which intertwine with each other to form a stable monomer which associates with five other monomers to yield the active hexamer. The N-terminus consists of a long helix and a four-stranded sheet with a novel topology. The C-terminus binds the nucleoside whereas the N-terminus acts as the enzymatic regulatory domain. AMNp (EC:3.2.2.4) catalyses the hydrolysis of AMP to form adenine and ribose 5-phosphate. thereby regulating intracellular AMP levels.
PEX11	Peroxisomal biogenesis factor 11 (PEX11). This family consists of several peroxisomal biogenesis factor 11 (PEX11) proteins from several eukaryotic species. The PEX11 peroxisomal membrane proteins promote peroxisome division in multiple eukaryotes.
CcmE	CcmE. CcmE is the product of one of a cluster of Ccm genes that are necessary for cytochrome c biosynthesis in eubacteria. Expression of these proteins is induced when the organisms are grown under anaerobic conditions with nitrate or nitrite as the final electron acceptor.
Cpn10	Chaperonin 10 Kd subunit. This family contains GroES and Gp31-like chaperonins. Gp31 is a functional co-chaperonin that is required for the folding and assembly of Gp23, a major capsid protein, during phage morphogenesis.
tify	tify domain. This short possible domain is found in a variety of plant transcription factors that contain GATA domains as well as other motifs. Although previously known as the Zim domain this is now called the tify domain after its most conserved amino acids. TIFY proteins can be further classified into two groups depending on the presence (group I) or absence (group II) of a C2C2-GATA domain. Functional annotation of these proteins is still poor, but several screens revealed a link between TIFY proteins of group II and jasmonic acid-related stress response.
SRR1	SRR1. SRR1 proteins are signalling proteins involved in regulating the circadian clock in Arabidopsis.
FBD	FBD. This region is found in F-box (pfam00646) and other domain containing plant proteins; it is repeated in two family members. Its precise function is unknown, but it is thought to be associated with nuclear processes. In fact, several family members are annotated as being similar to transcription factors.
Orbi_VP6	Orbivirus helicase VP6. The VP6 protein a minor protein in the core of the virion is probably the viral helicase.
ABA_WDS	ABA/WDS induced protein. This is a family of plant proteins induced by water deficit stress (WDS), or abscisic acid (ABA) stress and ripening.
WWE	WWE domain. The WWE domain is named after three of its conserved residues and is predicted to mediate specific protein- protein interactions in ubiquitin and ADP ribose conjugation systems.
ATP-synt_D	ATP synthase subunit D. This is a family of subunit D form various ATP synthases including V-type H+ transporting and Na+ dependent. Subunit D is suggested to be an integral part of the catalytic sector of the V-ATPase.
GYF	GYF domain. The GYF domain is named because of the presence of Gly-Tyr-Phe residues. The GYF domain is a proline-binding domain in CD2-binding protein.
Tub	Tub family. 
PGAP1	PGAP1-like protein. The sequences found in this family are similar to PGAP1. This is an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein with a catalytic serine containing motif that is conserved in a number of lipases. PGAP1 functions as a GPI inositol-deacylase; this deacylation is important for the efficient transport of GPI-anchored proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi body.
SWIM	SWIM zinc finger. This domain is found in bacterial, archaeal and eukaryotic proteins. It is predicted to be organised into two N-terminal beta-strands and a C-terminal alpha helix, thus possibly adopting a fold similar to that of the C2H2 zinc finger (pfam00096). SWIM is thought to be a versatile domain that can interact with DNA or proteins in different contexts.
Vps16_C	Vps16, C-terminal region. This protein forms part of the Class C vacuolar protein sorting (Vps) complex. Vps16 is essential for vacuolar protein sorting, which is essential for viability in plants, but not yeast. The Class C Vps complex is required for SNARE-mediated membrane fusion at the lysosome-like yeast vacuole. It is thought to play essential roles in membrane docking and fusion at the Golgi-to-endosome and endosome-to-vacuole stages of transport. The role of VPS16 in this complex is not known.
DUF2154	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2154). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
NOGCT	NOGCT (NUC087) domain. This C terminal domain is found in the NOG subfamily of nucleolar GTP-binding proteins.
RAMP4	Ribosome associated membrane protein RAMP4. This family consists of several ribosome associated membrane protein RAMP4 (or SERP1) sequences. Stabilisation of membrane proteins in response to stress involves the concerted action of a rescue unit in the ER membrane comprised of SERP1/RAMP4, other components of the translocon, and molecular chaperones in the ER.
Glyco_hydro_9	Glycosyl hydrolase family 9. 
Filo_glycop	Filovirus glycoprotein. This family includes an extracellular region from the envelope glycoprotein of Ebola and Marburg viruses. This region is also produced as a separate transcript that gives rise to a non-structural, secreted glycoprotein, which is produced in large amounts and has an unknown function. Processing of this protein may be involved in viral pathogenicity.
Pam16	Pam16. The Pam16 protein is the fifth essential subunit of the pre-sequence translocase-associated protein import motor (PAM). In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Pam16 is required for preprotein translocation into the matrix, but not for protein insertion into the inner membrane. Pam16 has a degenerate J domain. J-domain proteins play important regulatory roles as co-chaperones, recruiting Hsp70 partners and accelerating the ATP-hydrolysis step of the chaperone cycle. Pam16's J-like domain strongly interacts with Pam18's J domain, leading to a productive interaction of Pam18 with mtHsp70 at the mitochondria import channel. Pam18 stimulates the ATPase activity of mtHsp70.
Pro_dh	Proline dehydrogenase. 
Glycogen_syn	Glycogen synthase. This family consists of the eukaryotic glycogen synthase proteins GYS1, GYS2 and GYS3. Glycogen synthase (GS) is the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of -1,4-linked glucose chains in glycogen. It is the rate limiting enzyme in the synthesis of the polysaccharide, and its activity is highly regulated through phosphorylation at multiple sites and also by allosteric effectors, mainly glucose 6-phosphate (G6P).
PMP1_2	ATPase proteolipid family. This family consists of small proteolipids associated with the plasma membrane H+ ATPase. Two proteolipids (PMP1 and PMP2) are associated with the ATPase and both genes are similarly expressed in the wild-type strain of yeast with no modification of the level of transcription of one PMP gene is detected in a strain deleted of the other. Though both proteolipids show similarity with other small proteolipids associated with other cation -transporting ATPases, their functions remain unclear.
Homoserine_dh	Homoserine dehydrogenase. 
SH3BP5	SH3 domain-binding protein 5 (SH3BP5). This family consists of several eukaryotic SH3 domain-binding protein 5 or c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)-interacting proteins (SH3BP5 or Sab). Sab binds to and serves as a substrate for JNK in vitro, and has been found to interact with the Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk). Inspection of the sequence of Sab reveals the presence of two putative mitogen-activated protein kinase interaction motifs (KIMs) similar to that found in the JNK docking domain of the c-Jun transcription factor, and four potential serine-proline JNK phosphorylation sites in the C-terminal half of the molecule.
TadE	TadE-like protein. The members of this family are similar to a region of the protein product of the bacterial tadE locus. In various bacterial species, the tad locus is closely linked to flp-like genes, which encode proteins required for the production of pili involved in adherence to surfaces. It is thought that the tad loci encode proteins that act to assemble or export an Flp pilus in various bacteria. All tad loci but TadA have putative transmembrane regions, and in fact the region in question is this family has a high proportion of hydrophobic amino acid residues.
PhosphMutase	2,3-bisphosphoglycerate-independent phosphoglycerate mutase. Members of this family are found in various bacterial 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate-independent phosphoglycerate mutase enzymes, which catalyse the interconversion of 2-phosphoglycerate and 3-phosphoglycerate in the reaction: [2-phospho-D-glycerate + 2,3-diphosphoglycerate = 3-phospho-D-glycerate + 2,3-diphosphoglycerate].
RmuC	RmuC family. This family contains several bacterial RmuC DNA recombination proteins. The function of the RMUC protein is unknown but it is suspected that it is either a structural protein that protects DNA against nuclease action, or is itself involved in DNA cleavage at the regions of DNA secondary structures
Leu_Phe_trans	Leucyl/phenylalanyl-tRNA protein transferase. 
HSP70	Hsp70 protein. Hsp70 chaperones help to fold many proteins. Hsp70 assisted folding involves repeated cycles of substrate binding and release. Hsp70 activity is ATP dependent. Hsp70 proteins are made up of two regions: the amino terminus is the ATPase domain and the carboxyl terminus is the substrate binding region.
ATHILA	ATHILA ORF-1 family. ATHILA is a group of Arabidopsis thaliana retrotransposons belonging to the Ty3/gypsy family of the long terminal repeat (LTR) class of eukaryotic retrotransposons. The central region of ATHILA retrotransposons contains two or three open reading frames (ORFs). This family represents the ORF1 product. The function of ORF1 is unknown.
DM13	Electron transfer DM13. The DM13 domain is a component of a novel electron-transfer system potentially involved in oxidative modification of animal cell-surface proteins. It contains a nearly absolutely conserved cysteine, which could be involved in a redox reaction, either as a naked thiol group or through binding a prosthetic group like heme.
Hormone_1	Somatotropin hormone family. 
CMV_US	CMV US. This is a family of unique short (US) cytoplasmic glycoproteins which are expressed in cytomegalovirus.
SF3b10	Splicing factor 3B subunit 10 (SF3b10). This family consists of several eukaryotic splicing factor 3B subunit 10 (SF3b10) proteins. SF3b10 is a 10 kDa subunit of the splicing factor SF3b. SF3b associates with the splicing factor SF3a and a 12S RNA unit to form the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins complex. SF3b10 and SF3b14b are also thought to facilitate the interaction of U2 with the branch site.
Cad	Cadmium resistance transporter. 
eRF1_1	eRF1 domain 1. The release factor eRF1 terminates protein biosynthesis by recognising stop codons at the A site of the ribosome and stimulating peptidyl-tRNA bond hydrolysis at the peptidyl transferase centre. The crystal structure of human eRF1 is known. The overall shape and dimensions of eRF1 resemble a tRNA molecule with domains 1, 2, and 3 of eRF1 corresponding to the anticodon loop, aminoacyl acceptor stem, and T stem of a tRNA molecule, respectively. The position of the essential GGQ motif at an exposed tip of domain 2 suggests that the Gln residue coordinates a water molecule to mediate the hydrolytic activity at the peptidyl transferase centre. A conserved groove on domain 1, 80 A from the GGQ motif, is proposed to form the codon recognition site. This family also includes other proteins for which the precise molecular function is unknown. Many of them are from Archaebacteria. These proteins may also be involved in translation termination but this awaits experimental verification.
Pantoate_ligase	Pantoate-beta-alanine ligase. Pantoate-beta-alanine ligase, also know as pantothenate synthase, (EC:6.3.2.1) catalyses the formation of pantothenate from pantoate and alanine.
7TM_GPCR_Srsx	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srsx. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srsx is a solo family amongst the superfamilies of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
Surp	Surp module. This domain is also known as the SWAP domain. SWAP stands for Suppressor-of-White-APricot. It has been suggested that these domains may be RNA binding.
PSI_PsaJ	Photosystem I reaction centre subunit IX / PsaJ. This family consists of the photosystem I reaction centre subunit IX or PsaJ from various organisms including Synechocystis sp. (strain pcc 6803), Pinus thunbergii (green pine) and Zea mays (maize). PsaJ is a small 4.4kDa, chloroplastal encoded, hydrophobic subunit of the photosystem I reaction complex its function is not yet fully understood. PsaJ can be cross-linked to PsaF and has a single predicted transmembrane domain it has a proposed role in maintaining PsaF in the correct orientation to allow for fast electron transfer from soluble donor proteins to P700+.
DUF2336	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2336). Members of this family of hypothetical bacterial proteins have no known function.
Filament	Intermediate filament protein. 
Vps39_1	Vacuolar sorting protein 39 domain 1. This domain is found on the vacuolar sorting protein Vps39 which is a component of the C-Vps complex. Vps39 is thought to be required for the fusion of endosomes and other types of transport intermediates with the vacuole. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Vps39 has been shown to stimulate nucleotide exchange. The precise function of this domain has not been characterised.
DUF814	Domain of unknown function (DUF814). This domain occurs in proteins that have been annotated as Fibronectin/fibrinogen binding protein by similarity. This annotation comes from Bacillus subtilis YloA where the N-terminal region is involved in this activity. Hence the activity of this C-terminal domain is unknown. This domain contains a conserved motif D/E-X-W/Y-X-H that may be functionally important.
PAP_central	Poly(A) polymerase central domain. The central domain of Poly(A) polymerase shares structural similarity with the allosteric activity domain of ribonucleotide reductase R1, which comprises a four-helix bundle and a three-stranded mixed beta- sheet. Even though the two enzymes bind ATP, the ATP-recognition motifs are different.
DUF204	Domain of unknown function DUF. This family consists of hypothetical transmembrane proteins non of which have any known function, the aligned region is 180 amino acids long.
Mov34	Mov34/MPN/PAD-1 family. Members of this family are found in proteasome regulatory subunits, eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) subunits and regulators of transcription factors. This family is also known as the MPN domain and PAD-1-like domain. It has been shown that this domain occurs in prokaryotes.
Fructosamin_kin	Fructosamine kinase. This family includes eukaryotic fructosamine-3-kinase enzymes. The family also includes bacterial members that have not been characterised but probably have a similar or identical function.
TFIIS_C	Transcription factor S-II (TFIIS). 
Metallothio_5	Metallothionein family 5. 
Flavokinase	Riboflavin kinase. This family represents the C-terminal region of the bifunctional riboflavin biosynthesis protein known as RibC in Bacillus subtilis. The RibC protein from Bacillus subtilis has both flavokinase and flavin adenine dinucleotide synthetase (FAD-synthetase) activities. RibC plays an essential role in the flavin metabolism. This domain is thought to have kinase activity.
Miro	Miro-like protein. Mitochondrial Rho proteins (Miro-1 and Miro-2), are atypical Rho GTPases. They have a unique domain organisation, with tandem GTP-binding domains and two EF hand domains (pfam00036), that may bind calcium. They are also larger than classical small GTPases. It has been proposed that they are involved in mitochondrial homeostasis and apoptosis.
Bac_export_2	FlhB HrpN YscU SpaS Family. This family includes the following members: FlhB, HrpN, YscU, SpaS, HrcU SsaU and YopU. All of these proteins export peptides using the type III secretion system. The peptides exported are quite diverse.
Pacs-1	PACS-1 cytosolic sorting protein. PACS-1 is a cytosolic sorting protein that directs the localisation of membrane proteins in the trans-Golgi network (TGN)/endosomal system. PACS-1 connects the clathrin adaptor AP-1 to acidic cluster sorting motifs contained in the cytoplasmic domain of cargo proteins such as furin, the cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor and in viral proteins such as human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Nef.
Piwi	Piwi domain. This domain is found in the protein Piwi and its relatives. The function of this domain is the dsRNA guided hydrolysis of ssRNA. Determination of the crystal structure of Argonaute reveals that PIWI is an RNase H domain, and identifies Argonaute as Slicer, the enzyme that cleaves mRNA in the RNAi RISC complex. In addition, Mg+2 dependence and production of 3'-OH and 5' phosphate products are shared characteristics of RNaseH and RISC. The PIWI domain core has a tertiary structure belonging to the RNase H family of enzymes. RNase H fold proteins all have a five-stranded mixed beta-sheet surrounded by helices. By analogy to RNase H enzymes which cleave single-stranded RNA guided by the DNA strand in an RNA/DNA hybrid, the PIWI domain can be inferred to cleave single-stranded RNA, for example mRNA, guided by double stranded siRNA.
RAI1	RAI1 like. RAI1 is homologous to Caenorhabditis elegans DOM-3 and human DOM3Z and binds to a nuclear exoribonuclease. It is required for 5.8S rRNA processing.
ArsA_ATPase	Anion-transporting ATPase. This Pfam family represents a conserved domain, which is sometimes repeated, in an anion-transporting ATPase. The ATPase is involved in the removal of arsenate, antimonite, and arsenate from the cell.
DUF940	Bacterial putative lipoprotein (DUF940). This family consists of hypothetical bacterial proteins several of which are described as putative lipoproteins.
DUF339	Protein of unknown function (DUF339). This family of uncharacterised proteins. Based on personal observation it was previously annotated in Pfam as being a divergent TPR repeat but structural evidence has indicated this is not true.
Met_10	Met-10+ like-protein. The methionine-10 mutant allele of N. crassa codes for a protein of unknown function. However, homologous proteins have been found in yeast suggesting this protein may be involved in methionine biosynthesis, transport and/or utilisation.
DUF1347	Protein of unknown function (DUF1347). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 610 residues in length. Members of this family are highly conserved and seem to be specific to Chlamydia species. The function of this family is unknown.
AMMECR1	AMMECR1. This family consists of several AMMECR1 as well as several uncharacterised proteins. The contiguous gene deletion syndrome AMME is characterised by Alport syndrome, midface hypoplasia, mental retardation and elliptocytosis and is caused by a deletion in Xq22.3, comprising several genes including COL4A5, FACL4 and AMMECR1. This family contains sequences from several eukaryotic species as well as archaebacteria and it has been suggested that the AMMECR1 protein may have a basic cellular function, potentially in either the transcription, replication, repair or translation machinery.
Aa_trans	Transmembrane amino acid transporter protein. This transmembrane region is found in many amino acid transporters including UNC-47 and MTR. UNC-47 encodes a vesicular amino butyric acid (GABA) transporter, (VGAT). UNC-47 is predicted to have 10 transmembrane domains. MTR is a N system amino acid transporter system protein involved in methyltryptophan resistance. Other members of this family include proline transporters and amino acid permeases.
7tm_7	7tm Chemosensory receptor. This family includes a number of gustatory and odorant receptors mainly from insect species such as A. gambiae and D. melanogaster. They are classified as G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), or seven-transmembrane receptors. They show high sequence divergence, consistent with an ancient origin for the family.
GRAS	GRAS family transcription factor. Sequence analysis of the products of the GRAS (GAI, RGA, SCR) gene family indicates that they share a variable amino-terminus and a highly conserved carboxyl-terminus that contains five recognisable motifs. Proteins in the GRAS family are transcription factors that seem to be involved in development and other processes. Mutation of the SCARECROW (SCR) gene results in a radial pattern defect, loss of a ground tissue layer, in the root. The PAT1 protein is involved in phytochrome A signal transduction.
DUF167	Uncharacterised ACR, YggU family COG1872. 
Reticulon	Reticulon. Reticulon, also know as neuroendocrine-specific protein (NSP), is a protein of unknown function which associates with the endoplasmic reticulum. This family represents the C-terminal domain of the three reticulon isoforms and their homologues.
Fib_gamma	Fibrinogen gamma chain. Fibrinogen is a protein involved in platelet aggregation and is essential for the coagulation of blood. This domain forms part of the central coiled coiled region of the protein which is formed from two sets of three non-identical chains (alpha, beta and gamma).
AMPKBI	5'-AMP-activated protein kinase, beta subunit, complex-interacting region. This region is found in the beta subunit of the 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase complex, and its yeast homologues Sip1, Sip2 and Gal83, which are found in the SNF1 kinase complex. This region is sufficient for interaction of this subunit with the kinase complex, but is not solely responsible for the interaction, and the interaction partner is not known. The isoamylase N-terminal domain (pfam02922) is sometimes found in proteins belonging to this family.
HATPase_c	Histidine kinase-, DNA gyrase B-, and HSP90-like ATPase. This family represents the structurally related ATPase domains of histidine kinase, DNA gyrase B and HSP90.
GspM	General secretion pathway, M protein. This is a family of membrane proteins involved in the secretion of a number of molecules in Gram-negative bacteria. The precise function of these proteins is unknown, though in Vibrio cholerae, the EpsM protein interacts with the EpsL protein, and also forms homodimers.
IGPS	Indole-3-glycerol phosphate synthase. 
mRNA_cap_enzyme	mRNA capping enzyme, catalytic domain. This family represents the ATP binding catalytic domain of the mRNA capping enzyme.
Pex26	Pex26 protein. This family consists of Pex26 and related mammalian proteins. Pex26 is a type II peroxisomal membrane protein which recruits Pex6-Pex1 complexes to peroxisomes. Mutations in Pex26 can lead to human disorders.
MIR	MIR domain. The MIR (protein mannosyltransferase, IP3R and RyR) domain is a domain that may have a ligand transferase function.
Alpha-2-MRAP_C	Alpha-2-macroglobulin RAP, C-terminal domain. The alpha-2-macroglobulin receptor-associated protein (RAP) is a intracellular glycoprotein that binds to the 2-macroglobulin receptor and other members of the low density lipoprotein receptor family. The protein inhibits binding of all currently known ligands of these receptors. Two different studies have provided conflicted domain boundaries.
Strabismus	Strabismus protein. This family consists of several strabismus (STB) or Van Gogh-like (VANGL) proteins 1 and 2. The exact function of this family is unknown. It is thought, however that STB1 gene and STB2 may be potent tumour suppressor gene candidates.
Phage_rep_org_N	N-terminal phage replisome organiser (Phage_rep_org_N). This entry represents the N-terminal domain of a small family of phage proteins. The protein contains a region of low-complexity sequence that reflects DNA direct repeats able to function as an origin of phage replication. The region is N-terminal to the low-complexity region.
Ribosomal_L5_C	ribosomal L5P family C-terminus. This region is found associated with pfam00281.
Guanylate_kin	Guanylate kinase. 
Exo70	Exo70 exocyst complex subunit. The Exo70 protein forms one subunit of the exocyst complex. First discovered in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Exo70 and other exocyst proteins have been observed in several other eukaryotes, including humans. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the exocyst complex is involved in the late stages of exocytosis, and is localised at the tip of the bud, the major site of exocytosis in yeast. Exo70 interacts with the Rho3 GTPase. This interaction mediates one of the three known functions of Rho3 in cell polarity: vesicle docking and fusion with the plasma membrane (the other two functions are regulation of actin polarity and transport of exocytic vesicles from the mother cell to the bud). In humans, the functions of Exo70 and the exocyst complex are less well characterised: Exo70 is expressed in several tissues and is thought to also be involved in exocytosis.
DUF538	Protein of unknown function, DUF538. This family consists of several plant proteins of unknown function.
DUF1673	Protein of unknown function (DUF1673). This family contains hypothetical proteins of unknown function expressed by two archaeal species.
Astro_capsid	Astrovirus capsid protein precursor. This product is encoded by astrovirus ORF2, one of the three astrovirus ORFs (1a, 1b, 2). The 87kD precursor protein undergoes an intracellular cleavage to form a 79kD protein. Subsequently, extracellular trypsin cleavage yields the three proteins forming the infectious virion.
Ebp2	Eukaryotic rRNA processing protein EBP2. This family consists of several Eukaryotic rRNA processing protein EBP2 sequences. Ebp2p is required for the maturation of 25S rRNA and 60S subunit assembly. Ebp2p may be one of the target proteins of Rrs1p for executing the signal to regulate ribosome biogenesis. This family also plays a role in chromosome segregation.
UPF0054	Uncharacterized protein family UPF0054. 
PAT1	Topoisomerase II-associated protein PAT1. Members of this family are necessary for accurate chromosome transmission during cell division.
AP2	AP2 domain. This 60 amino acid residue domain can bind to DNA and is found in transcription factor proteins.
tRNA-synt_2c	tRNA synthetases class II (A). Other tRNA synthetase sub-families are too dissimilar to be included. This family includes only alanyl-tRNA synthetases.
Mannosyl_trans2	Mannosyltransferase (PIG-V)). This is a family of eukaryotic ER membrane proteins that are involved in the synthesis of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI), a glycolipid that anchors many proteins to the eukaryotic cell surface. Proteins in this family are involved in transferring the second mannose in the biosynthetic pathway of GPI.
Hox9_act	Hox9 activation region. This family constitutes the N termini of the paralogous homeobox proteins HoxA9, HoxB9, HoxC9 and HoxD9. The N terminal region is thought to act as a transcription activation region. Activation is may be by interaction with proteins such as Btg proteins, which are thought to recruit a multi-protein Ccr4-like complex.
Mur_ligase_C	Mur ligase family, glutamate ligase domain. This family contains a number of related ligase enzymes which have EC numbers 6.3.2.*. This family includes: MurC, MurD, MurE, MurF, Mpl and FolC. MurC, MurD, Mure and MurF catalyse consecutive steps in the synthesis of peptidoglycan. Peptidoglycan consists of a sheet of two sugar derivatives, with one of these N-acetylmuramic acid attaching to a small pentapeptide. The pentapeptide is is made of L-alanine, D-glutamic acid, Meso-diaminopimelic acid and D-alanyl alanine. The peptide moiety is synthesised by successively adding these amino acids to UDP-N-acetylmuramic acid. MurC transfers the L-alanine, MurD transfers the D-glutamate, MurE transfers the diaminopimelic acid, and MurF transfers the D-alanyl alanine. This family also includes Folylpolyglutamate synthase that transfers glutamate to folylpolyglutamate.
PSS	Phosphatidyl serine synthase. Phosphatidyl serine synthase is also known as serine exchange enzyme. This family represents eukaryotic PSS I and II which are membrane bound proteins which catalyses the replacement of the head group of a phospholipid (phosphotidylcholine or phosphotidylethanolamine) by L-serine.
Peptidase_S49	Peptidase family S49. 
DUF1325	Protein of unknown function (DUF1325). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of around 300 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
zf-BED	BED zinc finger. 
DDRGK	DDRGK domain. This is a family of proteins of approximately 300 residues, found in plants and vertebrates. They contain a highly conserved DDRGK motif. The function is unknown.
HisG	ATP phosphoribosyltransferase. 
DUF350	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF350). This domain occurs in a small set of of bacterial proteins. It has two transmembrane regions, and often occurs as tandem repeats. The are no conserved catalytic residues.
DUF82	Protein of unknown function DUF82. This prokaryotic protein family has no known function. The protein contains four conserved cysteines that may be involved in metal binding or disulphide bridges.
DUF420	Protein of unknown function (DUF420). Predicted membrane protein with four transmembrane helices.
PDR_assoc	Plant PDR ABC transporter associated. This domain is found on the C-terminus of ABC-2 type transporter domains (pfam01061). It seems to be associated with the plant pleiotropic drug resistance (PDR) protein family of ABC transporters. Like in yeast, plant PDR ABC transporters may also play a role in the transport of antifungal agents [pfam06422]. The PDR family is characterised by a configuration in which the ABC domain is nearer the N-terminus of the protein than the transmembrane domain.
HS6ST	Heparan sulfate 6-sulfotransferase (HS6ST). This family consists of several heparan sulfate 6-sulfotransferase (HS6ST) proteins. Heparan sulphate 6- O -sulphotransferase (HS6ST) catalyses the transfer of sulphate from adenosine 3'-phosphate, 5'-phosphosulphate to the 6th position of the N -sulphoglucosamine residue in heparan sulphate.
PSI_PsaH	Photosystem I reaction centre subunit VI. Photosystem I (PSI) is an integral membrane protein complex that uses light energy to mediate electron transfer from plastocyanin to ferredoxin.
TROVE	TROVE domain. This presumed domain is found in TEP1 and Ro60 proteins, that are RNA-binding components of Telomerase, Ro and Vault RNPs. This domain has been named TROVE, (after Telomerase, Ro and Vault). This domain is probably RNA-binding.
Viral_Hsp90	Viral heat shock protein Hsp90 homologue. 
Mu-transpos_C	Mu transposase, C-terminal. Members of this family are found in various prokaryotic integrases and transposases. They adopt a beta-barrel structure with Greek-key topology.
UEV	UEV domain. This family includes the eukaryotic tumour susceptibility gene 101 protein (TSG101). Altered transcripts of this gene have been detected in sporadic breast cancers and many other human malignancies. However, the involvement of this gene in neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis is still elusive. TSG101 is required for normal cell function of embryonic and adult tissues but that this gene is not a tumour suppressor for sporadic forms of breast cancer. This family is related to the ubiquitin conjugating enzymes.
dsRNA_bind	Double stranded RNA binding domain. This domain is a divergent double stranded RNA-binding domain. It is found in members of the Dicer protein family which function in RNA interference, an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for gene silencing using double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) molecules.
Pentapeptide_2	Pentapeptide repeats (8 copies). These repeats are found in many mycobacterial proteins. These repeats are most common in the pfam00823 family of proteins, where they are found in the MPTR subfamily of PPE proteins. The function of these repeats is unknown. The repeat can be approximately described as XNXGX, where X can be any amino acid. These repeats are similar to pfam00805, however it is not clear if these two families are structurally related.
Mtp	Golgi 4-transmembrane spanning transporter. 
Aminotran_5	Aminotransferase class-V. This domain is found in amino transferases, and other enzymes including cysteine desulphurase EC:4.4.1.-.
GATA	GATA zinc finger. This domain uses four cysteine residues to coordinate a zinc ion. This domain binds to DNA. Two GATA zinc fingers are found in the GATA transcription factors. However there are several proteins which only contains a single copy of the domain.
Gp_dh_C	Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, C-terminal domain. GAPDH is a tetrameric NAD-binding enzyme involved in glycolysis and glyconeogenesis. C-terminal domain is a mixed alpha/antiparallel beta fold.
Transpeptidase	Penicillin binding protein transpeptidase domain. The active site serine is conserved in all members of this family.
Glyco_transf_20	Glycosyltransferase family 20. Members of this family belong to glycosyl transferase family 20. OtsA (Trehalose-6-phosphate synthase) is homologous to regions in the subunits of yeast trehalose-6-phosphate synthase/phosphate complex,.
HrpB7	Bacterial type III secretion protein (HrpB7). This entry represents proteins encoded by genes which are found in type III secretion operons in a narrow range of species including Xanthomonas, Burkholderia and Ralstonia.
Collar	Phage Tail Collar Domain. This region is occasionally found in conjunction with pfam03335. Most of the family appear to be phage tail proteins; however some appear to be involved in other processes. For instance rhiB from Rhizobium leguminosarum may be involved in plant-microbe interactions. A related protein MrpB is involved in the pathogenicity of Microcystis aeruginosa. The finding of this family in a structural component of the phage tail fibre baseplate suggests that its function is structural rather than enzymatic. Structural studies show this region consists of a helix and a loop and three beta-strands. This alignment does not catch the third strand as it is separated from the rest of the structure by around 100 residues. This strand is conserved in homologues but the intervening sequence is not. Much of the function of Enterobacteria phage T4 short tail fiber protein (Gp12) appears to reside in this intervening region. In the tertiary structure of the phage baseplate this domain forms part of the 'collar'. The domain may bind SO4, however the residues accredited with this vary between the PDB file and the Swiss-Prot entry. The long unconserved region maybe due to domain swapping in and out of a loop or reflective of rapid evolution.
Ldl_recept_a	Low-density lipoprotein receptor domain class A. 
Terminase_4	Phage terminase, small subunit. 
Psf1	Partner of SLD five, PSF1. The GINS complex is essential for initiation of DNA replication in Xenopus egg extracts. This 100 kD stable complex includes Sld5, Psf1, Psf2, and Psf3. Homologues of these components are found also in yeasts and in humans.
Glutaredoxin	Glutaredoxin. 
ABC_membrane_2	ABC transporter transmembrane region 2. This domain covers the transmembrane of a small family of ABC transporters and shares sequence similarity with pfam00664. Mutations in this domain in human PMP70 (70 kDa peroxisomal membrane protein) are believed responsible for Zellweger Syndrome-2; mutations in human ALDP (Adrenoleukodystrophy protein) are responsible for recessive X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. A Saccharomyces cerevisiae homolog is involved in the import of long-chain fatty acids.
Ebola_NP	Ebola nucleoprotein. This family consists of Ebola and Marburg virus nucleoproteins. These proteins are responsible for encapsidation of genomic RNA. It has been found that nucleoprotein DNA vaccines can offer protection from the virus.
Chitin_synth_1	Chitin synthase. This region is found commonly in chitin synthases classes I, II and III. Chitin a linear homopolymer of GlcNAc residues, it is an important component of the cell wall of fungi and is synthesised on the cytoplasmic surface of the cell membrane by membrane bound chitin synthases.
SOR_SNZ	SOR/SNZ family. Members of this family are enzymes involved in a new pathway of pyridoxine/pyridoxal 5-phosphate biosynthesis. This family was formerly known as UPF0019.
MtrA	Tetrahydromethanopterin S-methyltransferase, subunit A. The N5-methyltetrahydromethanopterin: coenzyme M (EC:2.1.1.86) of Methanosarcina mazei Go1 is a membrane-associated, corrinoid-containing protein that uses a transmethylation reaction to drive an energy-conserving sodium ion pump.
ERG2_Sigma1R	ERG2 and Sigma1 receptor like protein. This family consists of the fungal C-8 sterol isomerase and mammalian sigma1 receptor. C-8 sterol isomerase (delta-8-delta-7 sterol isomerase), catalyses a reaction in ergosterol biosynthesis, which results in unsaturation at C-7 in the B ring of sterols. Sigma 1 receptor is a low molecular mass mammalian protein located in the endoplasmic reticulum, which interacts with endogenous steroid hormones, such as progesterone and testosterone. It also binds the sigma ligands, which are are a set of chemically unrelated drugs including haloperidol, pentazocine, and ditolylguanidine. Sigma1 effectors are not well understood, but sigma1 agonists have been observed to affect NMDA receptor function, the alpha-adrenergic system and opioid analgesia.
WDYHV	Uncharacterized conserved protein. This protein is conserved from plants to rodents and consists of a common region of approximately 200 residues carrying several distinctive motifs including a WDYHV motif and motif of three cysteines. The function of the protein is unknown.
Fes1	Nucleotide exchange factor Fes1. Fes1 is a cytosolic homologue of Sls1, an ER protein which has nucleotide exchange factor activity. Fes1 in yeast has been shown to bind to the molecular chaperone Hsp70 and has adenyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity.
Herpes_UL47	Herpesvirus UL47 protein. 
DNA_gyraseA_C	DNA gyrase C-terminal domain, beta-propeller. This repeat is found as 6 tandem copies at the C-termini of GyrA and ParC DNA gyrases. It is predicted to form 4 beta strands and to probably form a beta-propeller structure. This region has been shown to bind DNA non-specifically and may stabilise the DNA-topoisomerase complex.
DAGAT	Diacylglycerol acyltransferase. The terminal step of triacylglycerol (TAG) formation is catalysed by the enzyme diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DAGAT).
THUMP	THUMP domain. The THUMP domain is named after after thiouridine synthases, methylases and PSUSs. The THUMP domain consists of about 110 amino acid residues. The structure of ThiI reveals that the THUMP has a fold unlike that of previously characterised RNA-binding domains. It is predicted that this domain is an RNA-binding domain The THUMP domain probably functions by delivering a variety of RNA modification enzymes to their targets.
RNA_pol_Rpb8	RNA polymerase Rpb8. Rpb8 is a subunit common to the three yeast RNA polymerases, pol I, II and III. Rpb8 interacts with the largest subunit Rpb1, and with Rpb3 and Rpb11, two smaller subunits.
eRF1_3	eRF1 domain 3. The release factor eRF1 terminates protein biosynthesis by recognising stop codons at the A site of the ribosome and stimulating peptidyl-tRNA bond hydrolysis at the peptidyl transferase centre. The crystal structure of human eRF1 is known. The overall shape and dimensions of eRF1 resemble a tRNA molecule with domains 1, 2, and 3 of eRF1 corresponding to the anticodon loop, aminoacyl acceptor stem, and T stem of a tRNA molecule, respectively. The position of the essential GGQ motif at an exposed tip of domain 2 suggests that the Gln residue coordinates a water molecule to mediate the hydrolytic activity at the peptidyl transferase centre. A conserved groove on domain 1, 80 A from the GGQ motif, is proposed to form the codon recognition site. This family also includes other proteins for which the precise molecular function is unknown. Many of them are from Archaebacteria. These proteins may also be involved in translation termination but this awaits experimental verification.
Peptidase_C3	3C cysteine protease (picornain 3C). Picornaviral proteins are expressed as a single polyprotein which is cleaved by the viral 3C cysteine protease.
LMWPc	Low molecular weight phosphotyrosine protein phosphatase. 
DUF258	Protein of unknown function, DUF258. 
TIP120	TATA-binding protein interacting (TIP20). TIP120 (also known as cullin-associated and neddylation-dissociated protein 1) is a TATA binding protein interacting protein that enhances transcription.
TMA7	Translation machinery associated TMA7. TMA7 plays a role in protein translation. Deletions of the TMA7 gene results in altered protein synthesis rates.
Corona_S1	Coronavirus S1 glycoprotein. The coronavirus spike glycoprotein forms the characteristic 'corona' after which the group is named. The Spike glycoprotein is translated as a large polypeptide that is subsequently cleaved to S1 and S2 pfam01601.
Amelin	Ameloblastin precursor (Amelin). This family consists of several mammalian Ameloblastin precursor (Amelin) proteins. Matrix proteins of tooth enamel consist mainly of amelogenin but also of non-amelogenin proteins, which, although their volumetric percentage is low, have an important role in enamel mineralisation. One of the non-amelogenin proteins is ameloblastin, also known as amelin and sheathlin. Ameloblastin (AMBN) is one of the enamel sheath proteins which is though to have a role in determining the prismatic structure of growing enamel crystals.
Herpes_MCP	Herpes virus major capsid protein. This family represents the major capsid protein (MCP) of herpes viruses. The capsid shell consists of 150 MCP hexamers and 12 MCP pentamers. One pentamer is found at each of the 12 apices of the icosahedral shell, and the hexamers form the edges and 20 faces.
COG7	Golgi complex component 7 (COG7). COG7 is a component of the conserved oligomeric Golgi complex which is required for normal Golgi morphology and localisation. Mutation in COG7 causes a congenital disorder of glycosylation.
tRNA-synt_2b	tRNA synthetase class II core domain (G, H, P, S and T). Other tRNA synthetase sub-families are too dissimilar to be included. This domain is the core catalytic domain of tRNA synthetases and includes glycyl, histidyl, prolyl, seryl and threonyl tRNA synthetases.
Pyrophosphatase	Inorganic pyrophosphatase. 
RNA_pol_N	RNA polymerases N / 8 kDa subunit. 
Cupin_2	Cupin domain. This family represents the conserved barrel domain of the 'cupin' superfamily ('cupa' is the Latin term for a small barrel).
DUF506	Protein of unknown function (DUF506). Family of uncharacterised plant proteins.
MutS_III	MutS domain III. This domain is found in proteins of the MutS family (DNA mismatch repair proteins) and is found associated with pfam00488, pfam05188, pfam01624 and pfam05190. The MutS family of proteins is named after the Salmonella typhimurium MutS protein involved in mismatch repair; other members of the family included the eukaryotic MSH 1,2,3, 4,5 and 6 proteins. These have various roles in DNA repair and recombination. Human MSH has been implicated in non-polyposis colorectal carcinoma (HNPCC) and is a mismatch binding protein. The aligned region corresponds with domain III, which is central to the structure of Thermus aquaticus MutS.
V-ATPase_G	Vacuolar (H+)-ATPase G subunit. This family represents the eukaryotic vacuolar (H+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) G subunit. V-ATPases generate an acidic environment in several intracellular compartments. Correspondingly, they are found as membrane-attached proteins in several organelles. They are also found in the plasma membranes of some specialised cells. V-ATPases consist of peripheral (V1) and membrane integral (V0) heteromultimeric complexes. The G subunit is part of the V1 subunit, but is also thought to be strongly attached to the V0 complex. It may be involved in the coupling of ATP degradation to H+ translocation.
DUF1385	Protein of unknown function (DUF1385). This family contains a number of hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function approximately 300 residues in length. Some family members are predicted to be metal-dependent.
MED7	MED7 protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins which are homologues of the yeast MED7 protein. Activation of gene transcription in metazoans is a multistep process that is triggered by factors that recognise transcriptional enhancer sites in DNA. These factors work with co-activators such as MED7 to direct transcriptional initiation by the RNA polymerase II apparatus.
Phosphodiest	Type I phosphodiesterase / nucleotide pyrophosphatase. This family consists of phosphodiesterases, including human plasma-cell membrane glycoprotein PC-1 / alkaline phosphodiesterase i / nucleotide pyrophosphatase (nppase). These enzymes catalyse the cleavage of phosphodiester and phosphosulfate bonds in NAD, deoxynucleotides and nucleotide sugars. Also in this family is ATX an autotaxin, tumour cell motility-stimulating protein which exhibits type I phosphodiesterases activity. The alignment encompasses the active site. Also present with in this family is 60-kDa Ca2+-ATPase form F. odoratum.
SET	SET domain. SET domains are protein lysine methyltransferase enzymes. SET domains appear to be protein-protein interaction domains. It has been demonstrated that SET domains mediate interactions with a family of proteins that display similarity with dual-specificity phosphatases (dsPTPases). A subset of SET domains have been called PR domains. These domains are divergent in sequence from other SET domains, but also appear to mediate protein-protein interaction. The SET domain consists of two regions known as SET-N and SET-C. SET-C forms an unusual and conserved knot-like structure of probably functional importance. Additionally to SET-N and SET-C, an insert region (SET-I) and flanking regions of high structural variability form part of the overall structure.
KxDL	Uncharacterized conserved protein. This is a family of short proteins which are conserved over a region of 80 residues. There is a characteristic KxDL motif towards the C-terminus. The function is unknown.
Ofd1_CTDD	Oxoglutarate and iron-dependent oxygenase C-terminal degradation domain. Ofd1 is a prolyl 4-hydroxylase-like 2-oxoglutarate-Fe(II) dioxygenase that accelerates the degradation of Sre1N in the presence of oxygen. The domain is conserved from yeasts to humans. Yeast Sre1 is the orthologue of mammalian sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP), and it responds to changes in oxygen-dependent sterol synthesis as an indirect measure of oxygen availability. However, unlike the prolyl 4-hydroxylases that regulate mammalian hypoxia-inducible factor, Ofd1 uses multiple domains to regulate Sre1N degradation by oxygen; the Ofd1 N-terminal dioxygenase domain is required for oxygen sensing and this Ofd1 C-terminal domain accelerates Sre1N degradation in yeasts.
SPX	SPX domain. We have named this region the SPX domain after (SYG1, Pho81 and XPR1). This 180 residue length domain is found at the amino terminus of a variety of proteins. In the yeast protein SYG1, the N-terminus directly binds to the G- protein beta subunit and inhibits transduction of the mating pheromone signal. This finding suggests that all the members of this family are involved in G-protein associated signal transduction. The N-termini of several proteins involved in the regulation of phosphate transport, including the putative phosphate level sensors PHO81 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and NUC-2 from Neurospora crassa, are also members of this family. NUC-2 contains several ankyrin repeats pfam00023. Several members of this family are annotated as XPR1 proteins: the xenotropic and polytropic retrovirus receptor confers susceptibility to infection with murine leukaemia viruses (MLV). The similarity between SYG1, phosphate regulators and XPR1 sequences has been previously noted, as has the additional similarity to several predicted proteins, of unknown function, from Drosophila melanogaster, Arabidopsis thaliana, Caenorhabditis elegans, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In addition, given the similarities between XPR1 and SYG1 and phosphate regulatory proteins, it has been proposed that XPR1 might be involved in G-protein associated signal transduction and may itself function as a phosphate sensor.
DUF2029	Protein of unknown function (DUF2029). This is a putative transmembrane protein from bacteria. It is likely to be conserved between Mycobacterium species.
Herpes_U47	Herpesvirus glycoprotein U47. 
TYW3	Methyltransferase TYW3. The methyltransferase TYW3 (tRNA-yW- synthesising protein 3) has been identified in yeast to be involved in wybutosine (yW) biosynthesis. yW is a complexly modified guanosine residue that contains a tricyclic base and is found at the 3' position adjacent the anticodon of phenylalanine tRNA. TYW3 is an N-4 methylase that methylates yW-86 to yield yW-72 in an Ado-Met-dependent manner.
Bunya_NS-S	Bunyavirus non-structural protein NS-s. The NS-s protein is encoded by the S RNA. This segment also encodes for the N protein. These two proteins are encoded by overlapping reading frames.
FYVE	FYVE zinc finger. The FYVE zinc finger is named after four proteins that it has been found in: Fab1, YOTB/ZK632.12, Vac1, and EEA1. The FYVE finger has been shown to bind two Zn++ ions. The FYVE finger has eight potential zinc coordinating cysteine positions. Many members of this family also include two histidines in a motif R+HHC+XCG, where + represents a charged residue and X any residue. We have included members which do not conserve these histidine residues but are clearly related.
Aldolase_II	Class II Aldolase and Adducin N-terminal domain. This family includes class II aldolases and adducins which have not been ascribed any enzymatic function.
SH2	SH2 domain. 
Bystin	Bystin. Trophinin and tastin form a cell adhesion molecule complex that potentially mediates an initial attachment of the blastocyst to uterine epithelial cells at the time of implantation. Trophinin and tastin bind to an intermediary cytoplasmic protein called bystin. Bystin may be involved in implantation and trophoblast invasion because bystin is found with trophinin and tastin in the cells at human implantation sites and also in the intermediate trophoblasts at invasion front in the placenta from early pregnancy. This family also includes the yeast protein ENP1. ENP1 is an essential protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and is localised in the nucleus. It is thought that ENP1 plays a direct role in the early steps of rRNA processing as enp1 defective yeast cannot synthesise 20S pre-rRNA and hence 18S rRNA, which leads to reduced formation of 40S ribosomal subunits.
Tmemb_161AB	Predicted transmembrane protein 161AB. Transmemb_161AB is a family of conserved proteins found from worms to humans. Members are putative transmembrane proteins but otherwise the function is not known.
Exonuc_X-T	Exonuclease. This family includes a variety of exonuclease proteins, such as ribonuclease T and the epsilon subunit of DNA polymerase III.;
CDC37_N	Cdc37 N terminal kinase binding. Cdc37 is a molecular chaperone required for the activity of numerous eukaryotic protein kinases. This domain corresponds to the N terminal domain which binds predominantly to protein kinases and is found N terminal to the Hsp (Heat shocked protein) 90-binding domain pfam08565. Expression of a construct consisting of only the N-terminal domain of Saccharomyces pombe Cdc37 results in cellular viability. This indicates that interactions with the cochaperone Hsp90 may not be essential for Cdc37 function.
RWD	RWD domain. This domain was identified in WD40 repeat proteins and Ring finger domain proteins. The function of this domain is unknown. GCN2 is the alpha-subunit of the only translation initiation factor (eIF2 alpha) kinase that appears in all eukaryotes. Its function requires an interaction with GCN1 via the domain at its N-terminus, which is termed the RWD domain after three major RWD-containing proteins: RING finger-containing proteins, WD-repeat-containing proteins, and yeast DEAD (DEXD)-like helicases. The structure forms an alpha + beta sandwich fold consisting of two layers: a four-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet, and three side-by-side alpha-helices.
Glycolytic	Fructose-bisphosphate aldolase class-I. 
UPF0075	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0075). The proteins is this family are about 370 amino acids long and have no known function.
ICMT	Isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase (ICMT) family. The isoprenylcysteine o-methyltransferase (EC:2.1.1.100) family carry out carboxyl methylation of cleaved eukaryotic proteins that terminate in a CaaX motif. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae this methylation is carried out by Ste14p, an integral endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein. Ste14p is the founding member of the isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase (ICMT) family, whose members share significant sequence homology.
RNase_E_G	Ribonuclease E/G family. Ribonuclease E and Ribonuclease G are related enzymes that cleave a wide variety of RNAs.
ATP-synt_ab	ATP synthase alpha/beta family, nucleotide-binding domain. This family includes the ATP synthase alpha and beta subunits, the ATP synthase associated with flagella and the termination factor Rho.
RPE65	Retinal pigment epithelial membrane protein. This family represents a retinal pigment epithelial membrane receptor which is abundantly expressed in retinal pigment epithelium, and binds plasma retinal binding protein. The family also includes the sequence related neoxanthin cleavage enzyme in plants and lignostilbene-alpha,beta-dioxygenase in bacteria.
PP1	Phloem filament protein PP1. This family represents a conserved region approximately 200 residues long, four copies of which are found within the plant phloem filament protein PP1. This is one of the constituents of the proteinaceous filaments found in the sieve elements of Cucurbita phloem.
Imp-YgjV	Bacterial inner membrane protein. This is a family of inner membrane proteins. Many of the members are YgjV protein.
Histone_HNS	H-NS histone family. 
UPF0066	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0066. 
Ins_P5_2-kin	Inositol-pentakisphosphate 2-kinase. This is a family of inositol-pentakisphosphate 2-kinases (EC 2.7.1.158) (also known as inositol 1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate 2-kinase, Ins(1,3,4,5,6)P5 2-kinase) and InsP5 2-kinase). This enzyme phosphorylates Ins(1,3,4,5,6)P5 to form Ins(1,2,3,4,5,6)P6 (also known as InsP6 or phytate). InsP6 is involved in many processes such as mRNA export, nonhomologous end-joining, endocytosis and ion channel regulation.
dCMP_cyt_deam_1	Cytidine and deoxycytidylate deaminase zinc-binding region. 
DUF2040	Coiled-coil domain-containing protein 55 (DUF2040). This entry is a conserved domain of approximately 130 residues of proteins conserved from fungi to humans. The proteins do contain a coiled-coil domain, but the function is unknown.
DUF565	Protein of unknown function (DUF565). Predicted transmembrane protein found in plants, chloroplasts and cyanobacteria. This family is also known as YCF20.
DUF2076	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2076). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function. The domain, however, is found in various periplasmic ligand-binding sensor proteins.
TAP42	TAP42-like family. The TOR signalling pathway activates a cell-growth program in response to nutrients. TIP41 (pfam04176) interacts with TAP42 and negatively regulates the TOR signaling pathway.
DUF1682	Protein of unknown function (DUF1682). The members of this family are all hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. One member is described as being an adipocyte-specific protein, but no evidence of this was found.
DUF869	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF869). This family consists of a number of sequences found in Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa and Lycopersicon esculentum (Tomato). The function of this family is unknown.
Rtt106	Histone chaperone Rttp106-like. This family includes Rttp106, a histone chaperone involved in heterochromatin-mediatied silencing.
DUF1637	Protein of unknown function (DUF1637). This family contains many eukaryotic hypothetical proteins. The region featured in this family is approximately 120 residues long. According to InterPro annotation, some members of this family may belong to the cupin superfamily.
CaMKII_AD	Calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II Association. This domain is found at the C-terminus of the Calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinases II (CaMKII). These proteins also have a Ser/Thr protein kinase domain (pfam00069) at their N-terminus. The function of the CaMKII association domain is the assembly of the single proteins into large (8 to 14 subunits) multimers.
HOOK	HOOK protein. This family consists of several HOOK1, 2 and 3 proteins from different eukaryotic organisms. The different members of the human gene family are HOOK1, HOOK2 and HOOK3. Different domains have been identified in the three human HOOK proteins, and it was demonstrated that the highly conserved NH2-domain mediates attachment to microtubules, whereas the central coiled-coil motif mediates homodimerisation and the more divergent C-terminal domains are involved in binding to specific organelles (organelle-binding domains). It has been demonstrated that endogenous HOOK3 binds to Golgi membranes, whereas both HOOK1 and HOOK2 are localised to discrete but unidentified cellular structures. In mice the Hook1 gene is predominantly expressed in the testis. Hook1 function is necessary for the correct positioning of microtubular structures within the haploid germ cell. Disruption of Hook1 function in mice causes abnormal sperm head shape and fragile attachment of the flagellum to the sperm head.
Plasmodium_HRP	Plasmodium histidine-rich protein (HRPII/III). This family consists of several histidine-rich protein II and III sequence from Plasmodium falciparum.
Tropomodulin	Tropomodulin. Tropomodulin is a novel tropomyosin regulatory protein that binds to the end of erythrocyte tropomyosin and blocks head-to-tail association of tropomyosin along actin filaments. Limited proteolysis shows this protein is composed of two domains. The amino terminal domain contains the tropomyosin binding function.
Gp_dh_N	Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, NAD binding domain. GAPDH is a tetrameric NAD-binding enzyme involved in glycolysis and glyconeogenesis. N-terminal domain is a Rossmann NAD(P) binding fold.
Dimerisation	Dimerisation domain. This domain is found at the N-terminus of a variety of plant O-methyltransferases. It has been shown to mediate dimerisation of these proteins.
DUF525	Protein of unknown function (DUF525). Members of this family include the bacterial protein ApaG and the C termini of some F-box proteins (pfam00646). F-box proteins contain a carboxy-terminal domain that interacts with protein substrates, so this family may be involved in protein-protein interaction. The function of ApaG proteins is unknown, but mutations in the Salmonella typhimurium ApaG homologue corD gives a phenotype of low-level cobalt resistance and decreased magnesium efflux by effects on the CorA magnesium transport system.
ATS3	Embryo-specific protein 3, (ATS3). Family of plant seed-specific proteins.
DUF953	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF953). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
Ribosomal_L41	Ribosomal protein L41. 
Ric8	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor synembryn. Ric8 is involved in the EGL-30 neurotransmitter signalling pathway. It is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that regulates neurotransmitter secretion.
HIG_1_N	Hypoxia induced protein conserved region. This family is found in proteins thought to be involved in the response to hypoxia. Family members mostly come from diverse eukaryotic organisms however eubacterial members have been identified. This region is found at the N-terminus of the member proteins which are predicted to be transmembrane.
NOT2_3_5	NOT2 / NOT3 / NOT5 family. NOT1, NOT2, NOT3, NOT4 and NOT5 form a nuclear complex that negatively regulates the basal and activated transcription of many genes. This family includes NOT2, NOT3 and NOT5.
GTP_EFTU_D3	Elongation factor Tu C-terminal domain. Elongation factor Tu consists of three structural domains, this is the third domain. This domain adopts a beta barrel structure. This the third domain is involved in binding to both charged tRNA and binding to EF-Ts pfam00889.
CLN3	CLN3 protein. This is a family of proteins from the CLN3 gene. A missense mutation of glutamic acid (E) to lysine (K) at position 295 in the human protein has been implicated in Juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (Batten disease).
DUF2422	Protein of unknown function (DUF2422). This is a family of proteins conserved in fungi. The function is not known. This family is the C-terminal half of some member proteins which contain the DUF2421 pfam10334 domain at their N-terminus.
TetR_C_3	YcdC-like protein, C-terminal region. This family comprises proteins that belong to the TetR family of transcriptional regulators. They bear particular similarity to YcdC, a putative HTH-containing protein. This family features the C-terminal region of these sequences, which does not include the helix-turn-helix.
SRP72	SRP72 RNA-binding domain. This region has been identified as the binding site of the SRP72 protein to SRP RNA.
DUF2372	Uncharacterised conserved protein (DUF2372). This family consists of proteins found from plants to humans. The function is not known.
MIP	Major intrinsic protein. MIP (Major Intrinsic Protein) family proteins exhibit essentially two distinct types of channel properties: (1) specific water transport by the aquaporins, and (2) small neutral solutes transport, such as glycerol by the glycerol facilitators.
DUF70	Protein of unknown function DUF70. Archaebacterial proteins of unknown function. Members of this family may be transmembrane proteins.
Telo_bind	Telomere-binding protein alpha subunit, central domain. The telomere-binding protein forms a heterodimer in ciliates consisting of an alpha and a beta subunit. This complex may function as a protective cap for the single-stranded telomeric overhang. Alpha subunit consists of 3 structural domains, all with the same beta-barrel OB fold.
UPF0051	Uncharacterized protein family (UPF0051). 
Myosin_N	Myosin N-terminal SH3-like domain. This domain has an SH3-like fold. It is found at the N-terminus of many but not all myosins. The function of this domain is unknown.
DUF2381	Protein of unknown function (DUF2381). This family consists of at least 8 paralogs in Myxococcus xanthus, a member of the Deltaproteobacteria. The function is unknown.
Pex24p	Integral peroxisomal membrane peroxin. Peroxisomes play diverse roles in the cell, compartmentalising many activities related to lipid metabolism and functioning in the decomposition of toxic hydrogen peroxide. Sequence similarity was identified between two hypothetical proteins and the peroxin integral membrane protein Pex24p.
DUF1515	Protein of unknown function (DUF1515). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 130 residues in length. Members of this family seem to be found exclusively in Rhizobium species. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF2077	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2077). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
DUF443	Protein of unknown function (DUF443). Family of uncharacterised proteins.
N_methyl	Prokaryotic N-terminal methylation motif. This short motif directs methylation of the conserve phenylalanine residue. It is most often found at the N-terminus of pilins and other proteins involved in secretion, see pfam00114, pfam05946, pfam02501 and pfam07596.
Ribosomal_L13	Ribosomal protein L13. 
XRN_N	XRN 5'-3' exonuclease N-terminus. This family aligns residues towards the N-terminus of several proteins with multiple functions. The members of this family all appear to possess 5'-3' exonuclease activity EC:3.1.11.-. Thus, the aligned region may be necessary for 5'->3' exonuclease function. The family also contains several Xrn1 and Xrn2 proteins. The 5'-3' exoribonucleases Xrn1p and Xrn2p/Rat1p function in the degradation and processing of several classes of RNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Xrn1p is the main enzyme catalysing cytoplasmic mRNA degradation in multiple decay pathways, whereas Xrn2p/Rat1p functions in the processing of rRNAs and small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) in the nucleus.
DUF1675	Protein of unknown function (DUF1675). The members of this family are sequences derived from hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function. One member of this family is annotated as a putative RNA-binding protein, but no evidence was found to support this.
Linker_histone	linker histone H1 and H5 family. Linker histone H1 is an essential component of chromatin structure. H1 links nucleosomes into higher order structures Histone H1 is replaced by histone H5 in some cell types.
XPG_I	XPG I-region. 
SNARE_assoc	SNARE associated Golgi protein. This is a family of SNARE associated Golgi proteins. The yeast member of this family localises with the t-SNARE Tlg2.
UPF0047	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0047. This family has no known function. The alignment contains a conserved aspartate and histidine that may be functionally important.
Reo_sigma1	Reovirus viral attachment protein sigma 1. This family consists of the reovirus sigma 1 hemagglutinin, cell attachment protein. This glycoprotein is a minor capsid protein and also determines the serotype-specific humoral immune response. Sigma 1 consist of a fibrous tail and a globular head. The head has important roles in the cell attachment function of sigma 1 and determinant of the type-specific humoral immune response. Reovirus is part of the orthoreovirus group of retroviruses with, a dsRNA genome. Also present in this family is bacteriophage SF6 Lysozyme.
UBACT	Repeat in ubiquitin-activating (UBA) protein. 
SecE	SecE/Sec61-gamma subunits of protein translocation complex. SecE is part of the SecYEG complex in bacteria which translocates proteins from the cytoplasm. In eukaryotes the complex, made from Sec61-gamma and Sec61-alpha translocates protein from the cytoplasm to the ER. Archaea have a similar complex.
Peptidase_C50	Peptidase family C50. 
DUF81	Domain of unknown function DUF81. This integral membrane protein family has no known function. The alignment appears to contain two duplicated modules of three transmembrane helices.
DUF1730	Domain of unknown function (DUF1730). This domain of unknown function occurs in Iron-sulfur cluster-binding proteins together with the 4Fe-4S binding domain (pfam00037).
Selenoprotein_S	Selenoprotein S (SelS). This family consists of several mammalian selenoprotein S (SelS) sequences. SelS is a plasma membrane protein and is present in a variety of tissues and cell types. The function of this family is unknown.
ApbA	Ketopantoate reductase PanE/ApbA. This is a family of 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductases also known as ketopantoate reductases, EC:1.1.1.169. The reaction catalysed by this enzyme is: (R)-pantoate + NADP(+) <=> 2-dehydropantoate + NADPH. AbpA catalyses the NADPH reduction of ketopantoic acid to pantoic acid in the alternative pyrimidine biosynthetic (APB) pathway. ApbA and PanE are allelic. ApbA, the ketopantoate reductase enzyme is required for the synthesis of thiamine via the APB biosynthetic pathway.
RVT_1	Reverse transcriptase (RNA-dependent DNA polymerase). A reverse transcriptase gene is usually indicative of a mobile element such as a retrotransposon or retrovirus. Reverse transcriptases occur in a variety of mobile elements, including retrotransposons, retroviruses, group II introns, bacterial msDNAs, hepadnaviruses, and caulimoviruses.
G-alpha	G-protein alpha subunit. G proteins couple receptors of extracellular signals to intracellular signaling pathways. The G protein alpha subunit binds guanyl nucleotide and is a weak GTPase.
MS_channel	Mechanosensitive ion channel. Two members of this protein family of M. jannaschii have been functionally characterised. Both proteins form mechanosensitive (MS) ion channels upon reconstitution into liposomes and functional examination by the patch-clamp technique. Therefore this family are likely to also be MS channel proteins.
Arena_glycoprot	Arenavirus glycoprotein. 
DUF2142	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2142). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
Capsule_synth	Capsule polysaccharide biosynthesis protein. This family includes export proteins involved in capsule polysaccharide biosynthesis, such as KpsS and LipB.
DUF871	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF871). This family consists of several conserved hypothetical proteins from bacteria and archaea. The function of this family is unknown.
SH3_1	SH3 domain. SH3 (Src homology 3) domains are often indicative of a protein involved in signal transduction related to cytoskeletal organisation. First described in the Src cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase. The structure is a partly opened beta barrel.
ThiG	Thiazole biosynthesis protein ThiG. This family consists of several bacterial thiazole biosynthesis protein G sequences. ThiG, together with ThiF and ThiH, is proposed to be involved in the synthesis of 4-methyl-5-(b-hydroxyethyl)thiazole (THZ) which is an intermediate in the thiazole production pathway.
Act-Frag_cataly	Actin-fragmin kinase, catalytic. Members of this family assume a secondary structure consisting of eight beta strands and 11 alpha-helices, organised in two lobes. They are predominantly found in actin-fragmin kinase, where they act as a catalytic domain that mediates the phosphorylation of actin.
FMC1	FMC1 protein family. This family of proteins is related to the yeast FMC1 protein that is required for assembly and stability of mitochondrial F(1)-ATPase.
Sec63	Sec63 Brl domain. This domain (also known as the Brl domain) is required for assembly of functional endoplasmic reticulum translocons.
2-Hacid_dh	D-isomer specific 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase, catalytic domain. This family represents the largest portion of the catalytic domain of 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases as the NAD binding domain is inserted within the structural domain.
ATP11	ATP11 protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic ATP11 proteins. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, expression of functional F1-ATPase requires two proteins encoded by the ATP11 and ATP12 genes. Atp11p is a molecular chaperone of the mitochondrial matrix that participates in the biogenesis pathway to form F1, the catalytic unit of the ATP synthase.
Candida_ALS	Candida agglutinin-like protein (ALS). This family consists of several agglutinin-like proteins from different Candida species. ALS genes of Candida albicans encode a family of cell-surface glycoproteins with a three-domain structure. Each Als protein has a relatively conserved N-terminal domain, a central domain consisting of a tandemly repeated motif, and a serine-threonine-rich C-terminal domain that is relatively variable across the family. The ALS family exhibits several types of variability that indicate the importance of considering strain and allelic differences when studying ALS genes and their encoded proteins.
Fmp27_WPPW	RNA pol II promoter Fmp27 protein domain. Fmp27_WPPW is a conserved domain of a family of proteins involved in RNA polymerase II transcription initiation. It contains characteristic HQR and WPPW sequence motifs. and is towards the C-terminal in members which contain Fmp27_SW pfam10305.
CoA_trans	Coenzyme A transferase. 
DUF1084	Protein of unknown function (DUF1084). This family consists of several hypothetical plant specific proteins of unknown function.
cwf21	cwf21. The cwf21 family is involved in mRNA splicing. It has been isolated as a subcomplex of the splicosome in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.
Peptidase_A24	Type IV leader peptidase family. Peptidase A24, or the prepilin peptidase as it is also known, processes the N-terminus of the prepilins. The processing is essential for the correct formation of the pseudopili of type IV bacterial protein secretion. The enzyme is found across eubacteria and archaea.
Nop52	Nucleolar protein,Nop52. Nop52 believed to be involved in the generation of 28S rRNA.
Glucan_synthase	1,3-beta-glucan synthase component. This family consists of various 1,3-beta-glucan synthase components including Gls1, Gls2 and Gls3 from yeast. 1,3-beta-glucan synthase EC:2.4.1.34 also known as callose synthase catalyses the formation of a beta-1,3-glucan polymer that is a major component of the fungal cell wall. The reaction catalysed is:- UDP-glucose + {(1,3)-beta-D-glucosyl}(N) <=> UDP + {(1,3)-beta-D-glucosyl}(N+1).
Flavodoxin_1	Flavodoxin. 
Vps55	Vacuolar protein sorting 55. Vps55 is involved in the secretion of the Golgi form of the soluble vacuolar carboxypeptidase Y, but not the trafficking of the membrane-bound vacuolar alkaline phosphatase. Both Vps55 and obesity receptor gene-related protein are important for functioning membrane trafficking to the vacuole/lysosome of eukaryotic cells.
Herpes_U5	Herpesvirus U5-like family. This family of Herpesvirus includes U4, U5 and UL27.
zf-DHHC	DHHC zinc finger domain. This domain is also known as NEW1. This domain is predicted to be a zinc binding domain. The function of this domain is unknown, but it has been predicted to be involved in protein-protein or protein-DNA interactions, and palmitoyltransferase activity.
YTH	YT521-B-like family. A protein of the YTH family has been shown to selectively remove transcripts of meiosis-specific genes expressed in mitotic cells. It has been speculated that in higher eukaryotic YTH-family members may be involved in similar mechanaisms to supress gene regulation during gametogenesis or general silencing. The rat protein YT521-B is a tyrosine-phosphorylated nuclear protein, that interacts with the nuclear transcriptosomal component scaffold attachment factor B, and the 68-kDa Src substrate associated during mitosis, Sam68. In vivo splicing assays demonstrated that YT521-B modulates alternative splice site selection in a concentration-dependent manner. The domain is predicted to have four alpha helices and six beta strands.
DUF1262	Protein of unknown function (DUF1262). This family represents a conserved region within a number of proteins of unknown function that seem to be specific to Arabidopsis thaliana. Note that some family members contain more than one copy of this region.
DUF1319	Protein of unknown function (DUF1319). This family contains a number of viral proteins of unknown function approximately 200 residues long. Family members seem to be restricted to badnaviruses.
OMPdecase	Orotidine 5'-phosphate decarboxylase / HUMPS family. This family includes Orotidine 5'-phosphate decarboxylase enzymes EC:4.1.1.23 that are involved in the final step of pyrimidine biosynthesis. The family also includes enzymes such as hexulose-6-phosphate synthase. This family appears to be distantly related to pfam00834.
LpxC	UDP-3-O-acyl N-acetylglycosamine deacetylase. The enzymes in this family catalyse the second step in the biosynthetic pathway for lipid A.
Ribosomal_S8e	Ribosomal protein S8e. 
DUF1794	Domain of unknown function (DUF1794). This domain forms a beta barrel structure. It is sometimes found on proteins containing a THAP (pfam05485) domain.
DUF788	Protein of unknown function (DUF788). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
SpvB	Salmonella virulence plasmid 65kDa B protein. 
DUF212	Divergent PAP2 family. This family is related to the pfam01569 family (personal obs: C Yeats).
HPC2	Histone promoter control 2 (HPC2). HPC2 is required for cell-cycle regulation of histone transcription. It regulates transcription of the histone genes during the S-phase of the cell cycle by repressing transcription at other cell cycle stages. HPC2 mutants display synthetic interactions with FACT complex which allows RNA Pol II to elongate through nucleosomes.
PARG_cat	Poly (ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG). Poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG), is a ubiquitously expressed exo- and endoglycohydrolase which mediates oxidative and excitotoxic neuronal death.
Ribosomal_S23p	S23 ribosomal protein. This family consists of bacterial 23S rRNA proteins.
Surf_Ag_VNR	Surface antigen variable number repeat. This family is found primarily in bacterial surface antigens, normally as variable number repeats at the N-terminus. The C-terminus of these proteins is normally represented by pfam01103. The alignment centres on a -GY- or -GF- motif. Some members of this family are found in the mitochondria. It is predicted to have a mixed alpha/beta secondary structure.
UPF0061	Uncharacterized ACR, YdiU/UPF0061 family. 
MORN	MORN repeat. The MORN (Membrane Occupation and Recognition Nexus) repeat is found in multiple copies in several proteins including junctophilins (See Takeshima et al. Mol. Cell 2000;6:11-22). A MORN-repeat protein has been identified in the parasite Toxoplasma gondiis a dynamic component of cell division apparatus in Toxoplasma gondii. It has been hypothesised to functions as a linker protein between certain membrane regions and the parasite's cytoskeleton.
RHS	RHS protein. 
Glyco_transf_22	Alg9-like mannosyltransferase family. Members of this family are mannosyltransferase enzymes. At least some members are localised in endoplasmic reticulum and involved in GPI anchor biosynthesis.
PB1	PB1 domain. 
LIM	LIM domain. This family represents two copies of the LIM structural domain.
Barwin	Barwin family. 
Ribosomal_S27	Ribosomal protein S27a. This family of ribosomal proteins consists mainly of the 40S ribosomal protein S27a which is synthesised as a C-terminal extension of ubiquitin (CEP). The S27a domain compromises the C-terminal half of the protein. The synthesis of ribosomal proteins as extensions of ubiquitin promotes their incorporation into nascent ribosomes by a transient metabolic stabilisation and is required for efficient ribosome biogenesis. The ribosomal extension protein S27a contains a basic region that is proposed to form a zinc finger; its fusion gene is proposed as a mechanism to maintain a fixed ratio between ubiquitin necessary for degrading proteins and ribosomes a source of proteins.
RdRP	RNA dependent RNA polymerase. This family of proteins are eukaryotic RNA dependent RNA polymerases. These proteins are involved in post transcriptional gene silencing where they are thought to amplify dsRNA templates.
Spermine_synth	Spermine/spermidine synthase. Spermine and spermidine are polyamines. This family includes spermidine synthase that catalyses the fifth (last) step in the biosynthesis of spermidine from arginine, and spermine synthase.
Far-17a_AIG1	FAR-17a/AIG1-like protein. This family includes the hamster androgen-induced FAR-17a protein, and its human homologue, the AIG1 protein. The function of these proteins is unknown. This family also includes homologous regions from a number of other metazoan proteins.
Mic1	Colon cancer-associated protein Mic1-like. This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 160 residues) of a number of proteins that resemble colon cancer-associated protein Mic1.
TRM13	Methyltransferase TRM13. This is a family of eukaryotic proteins which are responsible for 2'-O-methylation of tRNA at position 4. TRM13 shows no sequence similarity to other known methyltransferases.
SLR1-BP	S locus-related glycoprotein 1 binding pollen coat protein (SLR1-BP). This family consists of a number of cysteine rich SLR1 binding pollen coat like proteins. Adhesion of pollen grains to the stigmatic surface is a critical step during sexual reproduction in plants. In Brassica, S locus-related glycoprotein 1 (SLR1), a stigma-specific protein belonging to the S gene family of proteins, has been shown to be involved in this step. SLR1-BP specifically binds SLR1 with high affinity. The SLR1-BP gene is specifically expressed in pollen at late stages of development and is a member of the class A pollen coat protein (PCP) family, which includes PCP-A1, an SLG (S locus glycoprotein)-binding protein.
2OG-FeII_Oxy	2OG-Fe(II) oxygenase superfamily. This family contains members of the 2-oxoglutarate (2OG) and Fe(II)-dependent oxygenase superfamily. This family includes the C-terminal of prolyl 4-hydroxylase alpha subunit. The holoenzyme has the activity EC:1.14.11.2 catalysing the reaction: Procollagen L-proline + 2-oxoglutarate + O2 <=> procollagen trans- 4-hydroxy-L-proline + succinate + CO2. The full enzyme consists of a alpha2 beta2 complex with the alpha subunit contributing most of the parts of the active site. The family also includes lysyl hydrolases, isopenicillin synthases and AlkB.
V-ATPase_H	V-ATPase subunit H. 
DUF716	Family of unknown function (DUF716). This family is equally distributed in both metazoa and plants. Annotation associated with he Nicotiana tabacum TMV response-related gene product suggest that it may be involved in response to viral attack in plants. However, no clear function has been assigned to this family.
Auxin_inducible	Auxin responsive protein. This family consists of the protein products of the ARG7 auxin responsive genes family none of which have any identified functional role.
Shufflon_N	Bacterial shufflon protein, N-terminal constant region. This family represents the high-similarity N-terminal 'constant region' shared by shufflon proteins.
YhhN	YhhN-like protein. The members of this family are similar to the hypothetical protein yhhN expressed by Escherichia coli. Many of the members of this family are annotated as being possible transmembrane proteins, and in fact they all have a high proportion of hydrophobic residues.
Fib_beta	Fibrinogen beta chain N terminal. This domain is found at the N terminal of the fibrinogen beta chain.
Peripla_BP_2	Periplasmic binding protein. This family includes bacterial periplasmic binding proteins. Several of which are involved in iron transport.
Peptidase_C57	Vaccinia virus I7 processing peptidase. 
TatC	Sec-independent protein translocase protein (TatC). The bacterial Tat system has a remarkable ability to transport folded proteins even enzyme complexes across the cytoplasmic membrane. It is structurally and mechanistically similar to the Delta pH-driven thylakoidal protein import pathway. A functional Tat system or Delta pH-dependent pathway requires three integral membrane proteins: TatA/Tha4, TatB/Hcf106 and TatC/cpTatC. The TatC protein is essential for the function of both pathways. It might be involved in twin-arginine signal peptide recognition, protein translocation and proton translocation. Sequence analysis predicts that TatC contains six transmembrane helices (TMHs), and experimental data confirmed that N- and C-termini of TatC or cpTatC are exposed to the cytoplasmic or stromal face of the membrane. The cytoplasmic N-terminus and the first cytoplasmic loop region of the Escherichia coli TatC protein are essential for protein export. At least two TatC molecules co-exist within each Tat translocon.
Cytochrom_B558a	Cytochrome Cytochrome b558 alpha-subunit. Cytochrome b-245 light chain (p22-phox) is one of the key electron transfer elements of the NADPH oxidase in phagocytes.
Flg_bb_rod	Flagella basal body rod protein. 
Biotin_carb_C	Biotin carboxylase C-terminal domain. Biotin carboxylase is a component of the acetyl-CoA carboxylase multi-component enzyme which catalyses the first committed step in fatty acid synthesis in animals, plants and bacteria. Most of the active site residues reported in reference are in this C-terminal domain.
Herpes_ICP4_C	Herpesvirus ICP4-like protein C-terminal region. The immediate-early protein ICP4 (infected-cell polypeptide 4) is required for efficient transcription of early and late viral genes and is thus essential for productive infection. ICP4 is a large phosphoprotein that binds DNA in a sequence specific manner as a homodimer. ICP4 represses transcription from LAT, ICP4 and ORF-P that have high-affinity a ICP4 binding site that spans the transcription initiation site. ICP4 proteins have two highly conserved regions, this family contains the C-terminal region that probably acts as an enhancer for the N-terminal region.
DWNN	DWNN domain. DWNN is a ubiquitin like domain found at the N terminus of the RBBP6 family of splicing-associated proteins. The DWNN domain is independently expressed in higher vertebrates so it may function as a novel ubiquitin-like modifier of other proteins.
adh_short	short chain dehydrogenase. This family contains a wide variety of dehydrogenases.
Uricase	Uricase. 
MarR	MarR family. The Mar proteins are involved in the multiple antibiotic resistance, a non-specific resistance system. The expression of the mar operon is controlled by a repressor, MarR. A large number of compounds induce transcription of the mar operon. This is thought to be due to the compound binding to MarR, and the resulting complex stops MarR binding to the DNA. With the MarR repression lost, transcription of the operon proceeds. The structure of MarR is known and shows MarR as a dimer with each subunit containing a winged-helix DNA binding motif.
PROCT	PROCT (NUC072) domain. The PROCT domain is the C-terminal domain in pre-mRNA splicing factors of PRO8 family.
Crp	Bacterial regulatory proteins, crp family. 
DVL	DVL family. This family consists of the DVL family of proteins. In a gain-of-function genetic screen for genes that influence fruit development in Arabidopsis, DEVIL (DVL) gene was identified. DVL is a small protein and overexpression of the protein results in pleiotropic phenotypes featured by shortened stature, rounder rosette leaves, clustered inflorescences, shortened pedicles, and siliques with pronged tips. DVL family is a novel class of small polypeptides and the overexpression phenotypes suggest that these polypeptides may have a role in plant development.
Neisseria_PilC	Neisseria PilC protein. This family consists of several PilC protein sequences from Neisseria gonorrhoeae and N. meningitidis. PilC is a phase-variable protein associated with pilus-mediated adherence of pathogenic Neisseria to target cells.
Intron_maturas2	Type II intron maturase. Group II introns use intron-encoded reverse transcriptase, maturase and DNA endonuclease activities for site-specific insertion into DNA. Although this type of intron is self splicing in vitro they require a maturase protein for splicing in vivo. It has been shown that a specific region of the aI2 intron is needed for the maturase function. This region was found to be conserved in group II introns and called domain X.
NDK	Nucleoside diphosphate kinase. 
CD225	Interferon-induced transmembrane protein. This family includes the human leukocyte antigen CD225, which is an interferon inducible transmembrane protein, and is associated with interferon induced cell growth suppression.
NOZZLE	Plant transcription factor NOZZLE. NOZZLE is a transcription factor that plays a role in patterning the proximal-distal and adaxial-abaxial axes.
Sin_N	Sin-like protein conserved region. Family of higher eukaryotic proteins. SIN was identified as a protein that interacts specifically with SXL (sex lethal) in a yeast two-hybrid assay. The interaction is mediated by one of the SXL RNA binding domains.
tRNA_int_endo_N	tRNA intron endonuclease, N-terminal domain. Members of this family cleave pre tRNA at the 5' and 3' splice sites to release the intron EC:3.1.27.9.
CP12	CP12 domain. The function of this domain is unknown, it does contain three conserved cysteines and a histidine, that suggests this may be a zinc binding domain (Bateman A pers. observation). This domain is found associated with CBS domains in some proteins pfam00571.
Omt_N	O-methyltransferase N-terminus. This domain is found at the N-terminus of polyketide synthesis O-methyltransferase proteins.
Asp-B-Hydro_N	Aspartyl beta-hydroxylase N-terminal region. This family includes the N-terminal regions of the junctin, junctate and aspartyl beta-hydroxylase proteins. Junctate is an integral ER/SR membrane calcium binding protein, which comes from an alternatively spliced form of the same gene that generates aspartyl beta-hydroxylase and junctin. Aspartyl beta-hydroxylase catalyses the post-translational hydroxylation of aspartic acid or asparagine residues contained within epidermal growth factor (EGF) domains of proteins.
NB-ARC	NB-ARC domain. 
PGM_PMM_I	Phosphoglucomutase/phosphomannomutase, alpha/beta/alpha domain I. 
PH_2	Plant pleckstrin homology-like region. This family describes a pleckstrin homology (PH)-like region found in several plant proteins of unknown function.
DUF1361	Protein of unknown function (DUF1361). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 200 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown although some members are annotated as being putative integral membrane proteins.
MetW	Methionine biosynthesis protein MetW. This family consists of several bacterial and one archaeal methionine biosynthesis MetW proteins. Biosynthesis of methionine from homoserine in Pseudomonas putida takes place in three steps. The first step is the acylation of homoserine to yield an acyl-L-homoserine. This reaction is catalysed by the products of the metXW genes and is equivalent to the first step in enterobacteria, gram-positive bacteria and fungi, except that in these microorganisms the reaction is catalysed by a single polypeptide (the product of the metA gene in Escherichia coli and the met5 gene product in Neurospora crassa). In Pseudomonas putida, as in gram-positive bacteria and certain fungi, the second and third steps are a direct sulfhydrylation that converts the O-acyl-L-homoserine into homocysteine and further methylation to yield methionine. The latter reaction can be mediated by either of the two methionine synthetases present in the cells.
GCN5L1	GCN5-like protein 1 (GCN5L1). This family consists of several eukaryotic GCN5-like protein 1 (GCN5L1) sequences. The function of this family is unknown.
DIL	DIL domain. The DIL domain has no known function.
GP41	Envelope Polyprotein GP41. The GP41 subunit of the envelope protein complex from human and simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV and SIV) mediates membrane fusion during viral entry.
eIF-5a	Eukaryotic initiation factor 5A hypusine, DNA-binding OB fold. 
DUF1705	Domain of unknown function (DUF1705). Some members of this family are putative bacterial membrane proteins. This domain is found immediately N terminal to the sulfatase domain in many sulfatases.
Peptidase_M8	Leishmanolysin. 
Ytp1	Protein of unknown function (Ytp1). This is a family of proteins found in fungi. The region appears to contain regions similar to mitochondrial electron transport proteins. The C-terminal domain is hydrophobic and negatively charged. There are consensus sites for both N-linked glycosylation and cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation.
TFIIF_beta	Transcription initiation factor IIF, beta subunit. Accurate transcription in vivo requires at least six general transcription initiation factors, in addition to RNA polymerase II. Transcription initiation factor IIF (TFIIF) is a tetramer of two beta subunits associate with two alpha subunits which interacts directly with RNA polymerase II. The beta subunit of TFIIF is required for recruitment of RNA polymerase II onto the promoter.
TfoX_N	TfoX N-terminal domain. TfoX may play a key role in the development of genetic competence by regulating the expression of late competence-specific genes. This family corresponds to the N-terminal presumed domain of TfoX. The domain is found as an isolated domain in some proteins suggesting this is an autonomous domain.
Pep_deformylase	Polypeptide deformylase. 
DUF1292	Protein of unknown function (DUF1292). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 90 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF2384	Protein of unknown function (DUF2384). Proteins in this family are found almost exclusively in the Proteobacteria, but also in Gloeobacter violaceus PCC 7421, a cyanobacterium. The function is unknown.
Peptidase_S66	LD-carboxypeptidase. Muramoyl-tetrapeptide carboxypeptidase hydrolyses a peptide bond between a di-basic amino acid and the C-terminal D-alanine in the tetrapeptide moiety in peptidoglycan. This cleaves the bond between an L- and a D-amino acid. The function of this activity is in murein recycling. This family also includes the microcin c7 self-immunity protein. This family corresponds to Merops family S66.
Rep-A_N	Replication factor-A protein 1, N-terminal domain. 
LepA_C	GTP-binding protein LepA C-terminus. This family consists of the C-terminal region of several pro- and eukaryotic GTP-binding LepA proteins.
DUF581	Protein of unknown function (DUF581). Family of uncharacterised proteins.
DUF2390	Protein of unknown function (DUF2390). Members of this family are bacterial hypothetical proteins, about 160 amino acids in length, found in various proteobacteria, including members of the genera Pseudomonas and Vibrio. The C-terminal region is poorly conserved and is not included in the model.
Ald_Xan_dh_C2	Aldehyde oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase, molybdopterin binding domain. 
PGI	Phosphoglucose isomerase. Phosphoglucose isomerase catalyses the interconversion of glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate.
Maf1	Maf1 regulator. Maf1 is a negative regulator of RNA polymerase III. It targets the initiation factor TFIIIB.
DUF617	Protein of unknown function, DUF617. This family represents a conserved region in a number of uncharacterised plant proteins.
Pterin_4a	Pterin 4 alpha carbinolamine dehydratase. Pterin 4 alpha carbinolamine dehydratase is also known as DCoH (dimerisation cofactor of hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-alpha).
DUF477	Domain of unknown function (DUF477). The function of this presumed domain is unknown. It is found in both eukarya and eubacteria.
DUF1210	Protein of unknown function (DUF1210). This family represents a conserved region within plant proline-rich proteins.
TFIID-31kDa	Transcription initiation factor IID, 31kD subunit. This family represents the N-terminus of the 31kD subunit (42kD in drosophila) of transcription initiation factor IID (TAFII31). TAFII31 binds to p53, and is an essential requirement for p53 mediated transcription activation.
DUF659	Protein of unknown function (DUF 659). Transposase-like protein with no known function.
YjeF_N	YjeF-related protein N-terminus. 
AhpC-TSA	AhpC/TSA family. This family contains proteins related to alkyl hydroperoxide reductase (AhpC) and thiol specific antioxidant (TSA).
Mis12	Mis12 protein. Kinetochores are the chromosomal sites for spindle interaction and play a vital role in chromosome segregation. Fission yeast kinetochore protein Mis12, is required for correct spindle morphogenesis, determining metaphase spindle length. Thirty-five to sixty percent extension of metaphase spindle length takes place in Mis12 mutants. It has been shown that Mis12 genetically interacts with Mal2, another inner centromere core complex protein in S. pombe.
Mpp10	Mpp10 protein. This family includes proteins related to Mpp10 (M phase phosphoprotein 10). The U3 small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein (snoRNP) is required for three cleavage events that generate the mature 18S rRNA from the pre-rRNA. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, depletion of Mpp10, a U3 snoRNP-specific protein, halts 18S rRNA production and impairs cleavage at the three U3 snoRNP-dependent sites.
YqaJ	YqaJ viral recombinase family. This protein family is found in many different bacterial species but is of viral origin. The protein forms an oligomer and functions as a processive alkaline exonuclease that digests linear double-stranded DNA in a Mg(2+)-dependent reaction, It has a preference for 5'-phosphorylated DNA ends. It thus forms part of the two-component SynExo viral recombinase functional unit.
Remorin_C	Remorin, C-terminal region. Remorins are plant-specific plasma membrane-associated proteins. In tobacco remorin co-purifies with lipid rafts. Most remorins have a variable, proline-rich C-half and a more conserved N-half that is predicted to form coiled coils. Consistent with this, circular dichroism studies have demonstrated that much of the protein is alpha-helical. Remorins exist in plasma membrane preparations as oligomeric structures and form filaments in vitro. The proteins can bind polyanions including the extracellular matrix component oligogalacturonic acid (OGA). In vitro, remorin in plasma membrane preparations is phosphorylated (principally on threonine residues) in the presence of OGA and thus co-purifies with a protein kinases(s). The biological functions of remorins are unknown but roles as components of the membrane/cytoskeleton are possible.
Es2	Nuclear protein Es2. This entry is of a family of proteins of approximately 500 residues with alternating regions of low complexity and conservation where the domain similarities are strong. Apart from a predicted coiled-coil domain, no other known functional domains have been characterised. The protein appears to be expressed in the nucleus and particularly highly in the pons sub-region of the brain. The protein is clearly necessary for normal development of the nervous system.
Sec8_exocyst	Sec8 exocyst complex component specific domain. 
DUF623	Protein of unknown function, DUF623. This family represents a conserved region found in a number of uncharacterised plant proteins.
PRP4	pre-mRNA processing factor 4 (PRP4) like. This small domain is found on PRP4 ribonuleoproteins. PRP4 is a U4/U6 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein that is involved in pre-mRNA processing.
SIP1	Survival motor neuron (SMN) interacting protein 1 (SIP1). Survival motor neuron (SMN) interacting protein 1 (SIP1) interacts with SMN protein and plays a crucial role in the biogenesis of spliceosomes. There is evidence that the protein is linked to spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis(ALS) in humans.
fn3	Fibronectin type III domain. 
BIG1	ER protein BIG1. This is a family of ER integral membrane proteins involved in cell wall organisation and biogenesis.
Mur_ligase	Mur ligase family, catalytic domain. This family contains a number of related ligase enzymes which have EC numbers 6.3.2.*. This family includes: MurC, MurD, MurE, MurF, Mpl and FolC. MurC, MurD, Mure and MurF catalyse consecutive steps in the synthesis of peptidoglycan. Peptidoglycan consists of a sheet of two sugar derivatives, with one of these N-acetylmuramic acid attaching to a small pentapeptide. The pentapeptide is is made of L-alanine, D-glutamic acid, Meso-diaminopimelic acid and D-alanyl alanine. The peptide moiety is synthesised by successively adding these amino acids to UDP-N-acetylmuramic acid. MurC transfers the L-alanine, MurD transfers the D-glutamate, MurE transfers the diaminopimelic acid, and MurF transfers the D-alanyl alanine. This family also includes Folylpolyglutamate synthase that transfers glutamate to folylpolyglutamate.
MMtag	Kinase phosphorylation protein. This is a glycine-rich domain that is the most highly conserved region of a family of proteins that in vertebrates are associated with tumours in multiple myelomas. The region may contain phosphorylation sites for several protein kinases, as well as N-myristoylation sites and nuclear localisation signals, so it might act as a signal molecule in the nucleus.
Ribosomal_L21p	Ribosomal prokaryotic L21 protein. 
DUF567	Protein of unknown function (DUF567). Family of uncharacterised proteins. This family contains both plant and bacterial members.
PilN	Fimbrial assembly protein (PilN). 
SufE	Fe-S metabolism associated domain. This family consists of the SufE-related proteins. These have been implicated in Fe-S metabolism and export).
Sema	Sema domain. The Sema domain occurs in semaphorins, which are a large family of secreted and transmembrane proteins, some of which function as repellent signals during axon guidance. Sema domains also occur in the hepatocyte growth factor receptor and the human Plexin-A3 precursor.
DNA_photolyase	DNA photolyase. This domain binds a light harvesting cofactor.
Zn_clus	Fungal Zn(2)-Cys(6) binuclear cluster domain. 
YceI	YceI-like domain. Escherichia coli YceI is a base-induced periplasmic protein. The recent structure of a member of this family shows that it binds to polyisoprenoid. The structure consists of an extended, eight-stranded, antiparallel beta-barrel that resembles the lipocalin fold.
NOA36	NOA36 protein. This family consists of several NOA36 proteins which contain 29 highly conserved cysteine residues. The function of this protein is unknown.
GSPII_IJ	Bacterial type II secretion system protein I/J. The bacterial general secretion pathway (GSP) is involved in the export of proteins (also called the type II pathway). This Pfam domain includes GSPI and GSPJ, which contain the pre-pilin signal sequence.
Hira	TUP1-like enhancer of split. The Hira proteins are found in a range of eukaryotes and are implicated in the assembly of repressive chromatin. These proteins also contain pfam00400.
EI24	Etoposide-induced protein 2.4 (EI24). This family contains a number of eukaryotic etoposide-induced 2.4 (EI24) proteins approximately 350 residues long. In cells treated with the cytotoxic drug etoposide, EI24 is induced by p53. It has been suggested to play an important role in negative cell growth control.
CbiX	CbiX. The function of CbiX is uncertain, however it is found in cobalamin biosynthesis operons and so may have a related function. Some CbiX proteins contain a striking histidine-rich region at their C-terminus, which suggests that it might be involved in metal chelation.
CutA1	CutA1 divalent ion tolerance protein. Several gene loci with a possible involvement in cellular tolerance to copper have been identified. One such locus in eubacteria and archaebacteria, cutA, is thought to be involved in cellular tolerance to a wide variety of divalent cations other than copper. The cutA locus consists of two operons, of one and two genes. The CutA1 protein is a cytoplasmic protein, encoded by the single-gene operon and has been linked to divalent cation tolerance. It has no recognised structural motifs. This family also contains putative proteins from eukaryotes (human and Drosophila).
CMAS	Cyclopropane-fatty-acyl-phospholipid synthase. This family consist of Cyclopropane-fatty-acyl-phospholipid synthase or CFA synthase EC:2.1.1.79 this enzyme catalyse the reaction: S-adenosyl-L-methionine + phospholipid olefinic fatty acid <=> S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine + phospholipid cyclopropane fatty acid.
DUF694	Family of unknown function (DUF694). Family of hypothetical bacterial proteins.
Phageshock_PspG	Phage shock protein G (Phageshock_PspG). This protein was previously designated as YjbO in Escherichia coli. It is found only in genomes that have the phage shock operon (psp), but it is only rarely encoded near other psp genes. The psp regulon is upregulated in response to a number of stress conditions, including ethanol, expression of the filamentous phage secretin protein IV and other secretins and heat shock.
A4_EXTRA	Amyloid A4 extracellular domain. 
Nsp1_C	Nsp1-like C-terminal region. This family probably forms a coiled-coil. This important region of Nsp1 is involved in binding Nup82.
DUF2146	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2146). This is a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. In Dictyostelium it is annotated as Mss11p but this could not be confirmed. Mss11p is required for the activation of pseudo-hyphal and invasive growth by Ste12p in yeast.
CDC50	LEM3 (ligand-effect modulator 3) family / CDC50 family. Members of this family have been predicted to contain transmembrane helices. The family member LEM3 is a ligand-effect modulator, mutation of which increases glucocorticoid receptor activity in response to dexamethasone and also confers increased activity on other intracellular receptors including the progesterone, oestrogen and mineralocorticoid receptors. LEM3 is thought to affect a downstream step in the glucocorticoid receptor pathway. Factors that modulate ligand responsiveness are likely to contribute to the context-specific actions of the glucocorticoid receptor in mammalian cells. The products of genes YNR048w, YNL323w and YCR094w (CDC50) show redundancy of function and are involved in regulation of transcription via CDC39. CDC39 (also known as NOT1) is normally a negative regulator of transcription either by affecting the general RNA polymerase II machinery or by altering chromatin structure. One function of CDC39 is to block activation of the mating response pathway in the absence of pheromone, and mutation causes arrest in G1 by activation of the pathway. It may be that the cold-sensitive arrest in G1 noticed in CDC50 mutants may be due to inactivation of CDC39. The effects of LEM3 on glucocorticoid receptor activity may also be due to effects on transcription via CDC39.
Mis12_component	Mis12-Mtw1 protein family. Mis12-Mtw1 is a eukaryotic conserved kinetochore protein that is involved in chromosome segregation.
BPL_LipA_LipB	Biotin/lipoate A/B protein ligase family. This family includes biotin protein ligase, lipoate-protein ligase A and B. Biotin is covalently attached at the active site of certain enzymes that transfer carbon dioxide from bicarbonate to organic acids to form cellular metabolites. Biotin protein ligase (BPL) is the enzyme responsible for attaching biotin to a specific lysine at the active site of biotin enzymes. Each organism probably has only one BPL. Biotin attachment is a two step reaction that results in the formation of an amide linkage between the carboxyl group of biotin and the epsilon-amino group of the modified lysine. Lipoate-protein ligase A (LPLA) catalyses the formation of an amide linkage between lipoic acid and a specific lysine residue in lipoate dependent enzymes.
Condensation	Condensation domain. This domain is found in many multi-domain enzymes which synthesise peptide antibiotics. This domain catalyses a condensation reaction to form peptide bonds in non- ribosomal peptide biosynthesis. It is usually found to the carboxy side of a phosphopantetheine binding domain (pfam00550). It has been shown that mutations in the HHXXXDG motif abolish activity suggesting this is part of the active site.
Copine	Copine. This family represents a conserved region approximately 180 residues long within eukaryotic copines. Copines are Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid-binding proteins that are thought to be involved in membrane-trafficking, and may also be involved in cell division and growth.
DUF786	Protein of unknown function (DUF786). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
ACCA	Acetyl co-enzyme A carboxylase carboxyltransferase alpha subunit. Acetyl co-enzyme A carboxylase carboxyltransferase is composed of an alpha and beta subunit.
Hid1	High-temperature-induced dauer-formation protein. Hid1 (high-temperature-induced dauer-formation protein 1) represents proteins of approximately 800 residues long and is conserved from fungi to humans. It contains up to seven potential transmembrane domains separated by regions of low complexity. Functionally it might be involved in vesicle secretion or be an inter-cellular signalling protein or be a novel insulin receptor.
Yip1	Yip1 domain. The Yip1 integral membrane domain contains four transmembrane alpha helices. The domain is characterised by the motifs DLYGP and GY. The Yip1 protein is a golgi protein involved in vesicular transport that interacts with GTPases.
PseudoU_synth_1	tRNA pseudouridine synthase. Involved in the formation of pseudouridine at the anticodon stem and loop of transfer-RNAs Pseudouridine is an isomer of uridine (5-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl) uracil, and id the most abundant modified nucleoside found in all cellular RNAs. The TruA-like proteins also exhibit a conserved sequence with a strictly conserved aspartic acid, likely involved in catalysis.
Rcd1	Cell differentiation family, Rcd1-like. Two of the members in this family have been characterised as being involved in regulation of Ste11 regulated sex genes. Mammalian Rcd1 is a novel transcriptional cofactor that mediates retinoic acid-induced cell differentiation.
DUF1075	Protein of unknown function (DUF1075). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
MucB_RseB	MucB/RseB family. Members of this family are regulators of the anti-sigma E protein RseD.
Histone	Core histone H2A/H2B/H3/H4. 
DUF1720	Domain of unknown function (DUF1720). This domain is found in different combinations with cortical patch components EF hand, SH3 and ENTH and is therefore likely to be involved in cytoskeletal processes. This family contains many hypothetical proteins.
Exonuc_V_gamma	Exodeoxyribonuclease V, gamma subunit. The Exodeoxyribonuclease V enzyme is a multi-subunit enzyme comprised of the proteins RecB, RecC (this family) and RecD. This enzyme plays an important role in homologous genetic recombination, repair of double strand DNA breaks resistance to UV irradiation and chemical DNA-damage. The enzyme (EC:3.1.11.5) catalyses ssDNA or dsDNA-dependent ATP hydrolysis, hydrolysis of ssDNA or dsDNA and unwinding of dsDNA.
DNA_pol_viral_N	DNA polymerase (viral) N-terminal domain. 
BHD_3	Rad4 beta-hairpin domain 3. This short domain is found in the Rad4 protein. This domain binds to DNA.
LrgA	LrgA family. This family is uncharacterised. It contains the protein LrgA that has been hypothesised to export murein hydrolases.
UPF0203	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0203). This family of proteins is functionally uncharacterised.
DUF1979	Domain of unknown function (DUF1979). Members of this family of functionally uncharacterised domains are found in various Oryza sativa mutator-like transposases.
GRIP	GRIP domain. The GRIP (golgin-97, RanBP2alpha,Imh1p and p230/golgin-245) domain is found in many large coiled-coil proteins. It has been shown to be sufficient for targeting to the Golgi. The GRIP domain contains a completely conserved tyrosine residue. At least some of these domains have been shown to bind to GTPase Arl1, see structures.
DUF1840	Domain of unknown function (DUF1840). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised.
Transposase_28	Putative gypsy type transposon. This family of plant genes are thought to be related to gypsy type transposons.
SPRY	SPRY domain. SPRY Domain is named from SPla and the RYanodine Receptor. Domain of unknown function. Distant homologues are domains in butyrophilin/marenostrin/pyrin homologues.
EIF_2_alpha	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha subunit. These proteins share a region of similarity that falls towards the C terminus from pfam00575.
DUF2227	Uncharacterized metal-binding protein (DUF2227). Members of this family of hypothetical bacterial proteins possess metal binding properties; however, their exact function has not, as yet, been determined.
Vps39_2	Vacuolar sorting protein 39 domain 2. This domain is found on the vacuolar sorting protein Vps39 which is a component of the C-Vps complex. Vps39 is thought to be required for the fusion of endosomes and other types of transport intermediates with the vacuole. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Vps39 has been shown to stimulate nucleotide exchange. This domain is involved in localisation and in mediating the interactions of Vps39 with Vps11.
Rota_NS53	Rotavirus RNA-binding Protein 53 (NS53). This protein is also known as NSP1. NS53 is encoded by gene 5. It is made in low levels in the infected cells and is a component of early replication. The protein is known to accumulate on the cytoskeleton of the infected cell. NS53 is an RNA binding protein that contains a characteristic cysteine rich region.
Hexokinase_1	Hexokinase. Hexokinase (EC:2.7.1.1) contains two structurally similar domains represented by this family and pfam03727. Some members of the family have two copies of each of these domains.
NOB1_Zn_bind	Nin one binding (NOB1) Zn-ribbon like. This domain corresponds to a zinc ribbon and is found on the RNA binding protein NOB1.
Clp1	Pre-mRNA cleavage complex II protein Clp1. This family consists of several pre-mRNA cleavage complex II Clp1 (or HeaB) proteins. Six different protein factors are required in vitro for 3' end formation of mammalian pre-mRNAs by endonucleolytic cleavage and polyadenylation. Clp1 is a subunit of cleavage complex IIA, which is required for cleavage, but not for polyadenylation of pre-mRNA.
PP2C	Protein phosphatase 2C. Protein phosphatase 2C is a Mn++ or Mg++ dependent protein serine/threonine phosphatase.
Orexin	Prepro-orexin. 
DUF616	Protein of unknown function (DUF616). Family of uncharacterised proteins.
Pcc1	Transcription factor Pcc1. Pcc1 is a transcription factor that functions in regulating genes involved in cell cycle progression and polarised growth.
EFG_C	Elongation factor G C-terminus. This domain includes the carboxyl terminal regions of Elongation factor G, elongation factor 2 and some tetracycline resistance proteins and adopt a ferredoxin-like fold.
DUF1001	Protein of unknown function (DUF1001). This family consists of proteins of unknown function. These proteins are around 200 amino acids in length. The proteins contain a conserved motif PYR in the amino terminal half of the protein that may be functionally important. The species distribution of the family is interesting. So far it is restricted to cyanobacteria, cryptomonads and plants. This suggests that this protein may be involved in some aspect of a photosynthetic lifestyle (Bateman A pers. obs.).
NodA	Nodulation protein A (NodA). Rhizobia nodulation (nod) genes control the biosynthesis of Nod factors required for infection and nodulation of their legume hosts. Nodulation protein A (NodA) is a N-acetyltransferase involved in production of Nod factors that stimulate mitosis in various plant protoplasts.
Secretin_N_2	Secretin N-terminal domain. This is a short domain found in bacterial type II/III secretory system proteins. The architecture of these proteins suggest that this family may be functionally analogous to pfam03958.
Plasmod_Pvs28	Plasmodium ookinete surface protein Pvs28. This family consists of several ookinete surface protein (Pvs28) from several species of Plasmodium. Pvs25 and Pvs28 are expressed on the surface of ookinetes. These proteins are potential candidates for vaccine and induce antibodies that block the infectivity of Plasmodium vivax in immunised animals.
DUF1006	Protein of unknown function (DUF1006). Family of conserved bacterial proteins with unknown function.
Atrophin-1	Atrophin-1 family. Atrophin-1 is the protein product of the dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) gene. DRPLA OMIM:125370 is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. It is caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat in the DRPLA gene on chromosome 12p. This results in an extended polyglutamine region in atrophin-1, that is thought to confer toxicity to the protein, possibly through altering its interactions with other proteins. The expansion of a CAG repeat is also the underlying defect in six other neurodegenerative disorders, including Huntington's disease. One interaction of expanded polyglutamine repeats that is thought to be pathogenic is that with the short glutamine repeat in the transcriptional coactivator CREB binding protein, CBP. This interaction draws CBP away from its usual nuclear location to the expanded polyglutamine repeat protein aggregates that are characteristic of the polyglutamine neurodegenerative disorders. This interferes with CBP-mediated transcription and causes cytotoxicity.
DUF1177	Protein of unknown function (DUF1177). This family consists of several hypothetical archaeal and and bacterial proteins of around 300 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
HI0933_like	HI0933-like protein. 
DUF825	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF825). This family consists of several plant proteins greater than 1000 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
FH2	Formin Homology 2 Domain. 
FAD_binding_3	FAD binding domain. This domain is involved in FAD binding in a number of enzymes.
Polysacc_synt	Polysaccharide biosynthesis protein. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins. Many members of the family are implicated in production of polysaccharide. The family includes RfbX part of the O antigen biosynthesis operon. The family includes SpoVB from Bacillus subtilis, which is involved in spore cortex biosynthesis.
Cir_N	N-terminal domain of CBF1 interacting co-repressor CIR. This is a 45 residue conserved region at the N-terminal end of a family of proteins referred to as CIRs (CBF1-interacting co-repressors). CBF1 (centromere-binding factor 1) acts as a transcription factor that causes repression by binding specifically to GTGGGAA motifs in responsive promoters, and it requires CIR as a co-repressor. CIR binds to histone deacetylase and to SAP30 and serves as a linker between CBF1 and the histone deacetylase complex.
ELFV_dehydrog	Glutamate/Leucine/Phenylalanine/Valine dehydrogenase. 
DNA_methylase	C-5 cytosine-specific DNA methylase. 
Baculo_ODV-E27	Baculovirus occlusion-derived virus envelope protein EC27. This family consists of several baculovirus occlusion-derived virus envelope proteins (EC27 or E27). The ODV-E27 protein has distinct functional characteristics compared to cellular and viral cyclins. Depending on the cdk protein, and perhaps other viral or cellular proteins yet to be described, the kinase-EC27 complex may have either cyclin B- or D-like activity.
SPOC	SPOC domain. The SPOC (Spen paralogue and orthologue C-terminal) domain is involved in developmental signalling.
Mit_gmP	Putative mitochondrial genome maintenance protein. This is a family of small, approximately 100 amino acid, proteins found from yeasts to humans. In yeasts the members are referred to as mitochondrial genome maintenance proteins 2, but this could not be confirmed for higher organisms. The exact function is not known.
ProQ	ProQ/FINO family. This family includes ProQ, which is required for full activation of the osmoprotectant transporter, ProQ, in Escherichia coli. This family includes several bacterial fertility inhibition (FINO) proteins. The conjugative transfer of F-like plasmids is repressed by FinO, an RNA binding protein. FinO interacts with the F-plasmid encoded traJ mRNA and its antisense RNA, FinP, stabilising FinP against endonucleolytic degradation and facilitating sense-antisense RNA recognition.
MMPL	MMPL family. Members of this family are putative integral membrane proteins from bacteria. Several of the members are mycobacterial proteins. Many of the proteins contain two copies of this aligned region. The function of these proteins is not known, although it has been suggested that they may be involved in lipid transport.
PP28	Casein kinase substrate phosphoprotein PP28. This domain is a region of 70 residues conserved in proteins from plants to humans and contains a serine/arginine rich motif. In rats the full protein is a casein kinase substrate, and this region contains phosphorylation sites for both cAMP-dependent protein kinase and casein kinase II.
UPF0104	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0104). This family of proteins are integral membrane proteins. These proteins are uncharacterised but contain a conserved PG motif. Some members of this family are annotated as dolichol-P-glucose synthetase and contain a pfam00535 domain.
L71	L71 family. This family of insect proteins are each about 100 amino acids long and have 6 conserved cysteine residues. They all have a predicted signal peptide and are probably excreted. The function of the proteins is unknown.
DUF192	Uncharacterized ACR, COG1430. 
GSHPx	Glutathione peroxidase. 
YcgR	YcgR protein. This family consists of several hypothetical YcgR proteins. YcgR may be involved in the flagellar motor function and may be a new member of the flagellar regulon.
2HCT	2-hydroxycarboxylate transporter family. The 2-hydroxycarboxylate transporter family is a family of secondary transporters found exclusively in the bacterial kingdom. They function in the metabolism of the di- and tricarboxylates malate and citrate, mostly in fermentative pathways involving decarboxylation of malate or oxaloacetate.
TRH	Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). This family consists of several thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) proteins. Thyrotropin-Releasing Hormone (TRH; pyroGlu-His-Pro-NH2), originally isolated as a hypothalamic neuropeptide hormone, most likely acts also as a neuromodulator and/or neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS). This interpretation is supported by the identification of a peptidase localised on the surface of neuronal cells which has been termed TRH-degrading ectoenzyme (TRH-DE) since it selectively inactivates TRH. TRH has been used clinically for the treatment of spinocerebellar degeneration and disturbance of consciousness in humans.
SLD3	DNA replication regulator SLD3. The SLD3 DNA replication regulator is required for loading and maintenance of Cdc45 on chromatin during DNA replication.
MRP-S32	Mitochondrial 28S ribosomal protein S32. This entry is of a family of short, approximately 100 amino acid residues, proteins which are mitochondrial 28S ribosomal proteins named as MRP-S32. Their exact function could not be confirmed.
MelC1	Tyrosinase co-factor MelC1. This family consists of several tyrosinase co-factor MELC1 proteins from a number of Streptomyces species. The melanin operon (melC) of Streptomyces antibioticus contains two genes, melC1 and melC2 (apotyrosinase). It is thought that MelC1 forms a transient binary complex with the downstream apotyrosinase MelC2 to facilitate the incorporation of copper ion and the secretion of tyrosinase indicating that MelC1 is a chaperone for the apotyrosinase MelC2.
PsiA	PsiA protein. This family consists of several Enterobacterial PsiA proteins. The function of PsiA is unknown although it is thought that it may affect the generation of an SOS signal in Escherichia coli.
Herpes_U15	Human herpesvirus U15 protein. 
RTA1	RTA1 like protein. This family is comprised of fungal proteins with multiple transmembrane regions. RTA1 is involved in resistance to 7-aminocholesterol, while RTM1 confers resistance to an an unknown toxic chemical in molasses. These proteins may bind to the toxic substance, and thus prevent toxicity. They are not thought to be involved in the efflux of xenobiotics.
Glyco_hydro_47	Glycosyl hydrolase family 47. Members of this family are alpha-mannosidases that catalyse the hydrolysis of the terminal 1,2-linked alpha-D-mannose residues in the oligo-mannose oligosaccharide Man(9)(GlcNAc)(2).
Psf3	Partner of SLD five, PSF3. The GINS complex is essential for initiation of DNA replication in Xenopus egg extracts. This 100 kD stable complex includes Sld5, Psf1, Psf2, and Psf3. Homologues of these components are found also in yeasts and in humans.
IGPD	Imidazoleglycerol-phosphate dehydratase. 
NC	NC domain. Members of this family are characterised by containing a well conserved NCEHF motif. The role of this domain is unclear.
EutB	Ethanolamine ammonia lyase large subunit (EutB). This family consists of several bacterial ethanolamine ammonia lyase large subunit (EutB) proteins (EC:4.3.1.7). Ethanolamine ammonia-lyase is a bacterial enzyme that catalyses the adenosylcobalamin-dependent conversion of certain vicinal amino alcohols to oxo compounds and ammonia. The enzyme is a heterodimer composed of subunits of Mr approximately 55,000 (EutB) and 35,000 (EutC).
Abhydrolase_2	Phospholipase/Carboxylesterase. This family consists of both phospholipases and carboxylesterases with broad substrate specificity, and is structurally related to alpha/beta hydrolases pfam00561.
Ribosomal_S21	Ribosomal protein S21. 
DUF2156	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2156). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
Cauli_VI	Caulimovirus viroplasmin. This family consists of various caulimovirus viroplasmin proteins. The viroplasmin protein is encoded by gene VI and is the main component of viral inclusion bodies or viroplasms. Inclusions are the site of viral assembly, DNA synthesis and accumulation. Two domains exist within gene VI corresponding approximately to the 5' third and middle third of gene VI, these influence systemic infection in a light-dependent manner.
DUF1212	Protein of unknown function (DUF1212). This family represents a conserved region within a number of hypothetical proteins of unknown function found in eukaryotes, bacteria and archaea. Some family members are membrane proteins.
CHASE3	CHASE3 domain. CHASE3 is an extracellular sensory domain, which is present in various classes of transmembrane receptors that are parts of signal transduction pathways in bacteria. Specifically, CHASE3 domains are found in histidine kinases, adenylate cyclases, methyl-accepting chemotaxis proteins and predicted diguanylate cyclases/phosphodiesterases. Environmental factors that are recognised by CHASE3 domains are not known at this time.
Glu_cys_ligase	Glutamate-cysteine ligase. Family of bacterial f glutamate-cysteine ligases (EC:6.3.2.2) that carry out the first step of the glutathione biosynthesis pathway.
SMP	Seed maturation protein. Plant seed maturation protein.
Ribosomal_60s	60s Acidic ribosomal protein. This family includes archaebacterial L12, eukaryotic P0, P1 and P2.
Orbi_VP3	Orbivirus VP3 (T2) protein. The orbivirus VP3 protein is part of the virus core and makes a 'subcore' shell made up of 120 copies of the 100K protein. VP3 particles can also bind RNA and are fundamental in the early stages of viral core formation. Also found in the family is structural core protein VP2 from broadhaven virus which is similar to VP3 in bluetongue virus. Orbivirus are part of the larger reoviridae which have a dsRNA genome of 10-12 linear segments; orbivirus found in this family include bluetongue virus and epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus.
Flavin_Reduct	Flavin reductase like domain. This is a flavin reductase family consisting of enzymes known to be flavin reductases as well as various oxidoreductase and monooxygenase components. VlmR is a flavin reductase that functions in a two-component enzyme system to provide isobutylamine N-hydroxylase with reduced flavin and may be involved in the synthesis of valanimycin. SnaC is a flavin reductase that provides reduced flavin for the oxidation of pristinamycin IIB to pristinamycin IIA as catalysed by SnaA, SnaB heterodimer. This flavin reductase region characterised by enzymes of the family is present in the C-terminus of potential FMN proteins from Synechocystis sp. suggesting it is a flavin reductase domain.
UMP1	Proteasome maturation factor UMP1. UMP1 is a short-lived chaperone present in the precursor form of the 20S proteasome and absent in the mature complex. UMP1 is required for the correct assembly and enzymatic activation of the proteasome. UMP1 seems to be degraded by the proteasome upon its formation
DUF773	Protein of unknown function (DUF773). This family contains several eukaryotic sequences which are thought to be CDK5 activator-binding proteins, however, the function of this family is unknown.
ETS_PEA3_N	PEA3 subfamily ETS-domain transcription factor N terminal domain. The N terminus of the PEA3 transcription factors is implicated in transactivation and in inhibition of DNA binding. Transactivation is potentiated by activation of the Ras/MAP kinase and protein kinase A signalling cascades. The N terminal region contains conserved MAP kinase phosphorylation sites.
FPN1	Ferroportin1 (FPN1). This family represents a conserved region approximately 100 residues long within eukaryotic Ferroportin1 (FPN1), a protein that may play a role in iron export from the cell. This family may represent a number of transmembrane regions in Ferroportin1.
Semialdhyde_dhC	Semialdehyde dehydrogenase, dimerisation domain. This Pfam entry contains the following members: N-acetyl-glutamine semialdehyde dehydrogenase (AgrC) Aspartate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase
7TM_GPCR_Sru	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Sru. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Sru is a member of the Srg superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
Galactosyl_T	Galactosyltransferase. This family includes the galactosyltransferases UDP-galactose:2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucose3beta-galactosyltrans ferase and UDP-Gal:beta-GlcNAc beta 1,3-galactosyltranferase. Specific galactosyltransferases transfer galactose to GlcNAc terminal chains in the synthesis of the lacto-series oligosaccharides types 1 and 2.
MRP-L47	Mitochondrial 39-S ribosomal protein L47 (MRP-L47). This family represents the N-terminal region (approximately 8 residues) of the eukaryotic mitochondrial 39-S ribosomal protein L47 (MRP-L47). Mitochondrial ribosomal proteins (MRPs) are the counterparts of the cytoplasmic ribosomal proteins, in that they fulfil similar functions in protein biosynthesis. However, they are distinct in number, features and primary structure.
Peptidase_S26	Peptidase S26. This is a family of serine endopeptidases which function in the processing of newly-synthesised secreted proteins. Peptidase S26 removes the hydrophobic, N-terminal signal peptides as proteins are translocated across membranes.
Baculo_helicase	Baculovirus DNA helicase. 
Alpha-amyl_C2	Alpha-amylase C-terminal beta-sheet domain. This domain is organised as a five-stranded anti-parallel beta-sheet. It is the probable result of a decay of the common-fold.
Peptidase_M14	Zinc carboxypeptidase. 
ABC1	ABC1 family. This family includes ABC1 from yeast and AarF from Escherichia coli. These proteins have a nuclear or mitochondrial subcellular location in eukaryotes. The exact molecular functions of these proteins is not clear, however yeast ABC1 suppresses a cytochrome b mRNA translation defect and is essential for the electron transfer in the bc 1 complex and Escherichia coli AarF is required for ubiquinone production. It has been suggested that members of the ABC1 family are novel chaperonins. These proteins are unrelated to the ABC transporter proteins.
RBFA	Ribosome-binding factor A. 
Nop	Putative snoRNA binding domain. This family consists of various Pre RNA processing ribonucleoproteins. The function of the aligned region is unknown however it may be a common RNA or snoRNA or Nop1p binding domain. Nop5p (Nop58p) from yeast is the protein component of a ribonucleoprotein protein required for pre-18s rRNA processing and is suggested to function with Nop1p in a snoRNA complex. Nop56p and Nop5p interact with Nop1p and are required for ribosome biogenesis. Prp31p is required for pre-mRNA splicing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
FTR1	Iron permease FTR1 family. 
Ham1p_like	Ham1 family. This family consists of the HAM1 protein and hypothetical archaeal bacterial and Caenorhabditis elegans proteins. HAM1 controls 6-N-hydroxylaminopurine (HAP) sensitivity and mutagenesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae HAM1. The HAM1 protein protects the cell from HAP, either on the level of deoxynucleoside triphosphate or the DNA level by a yet unidentified set of reactions.
SOCS_box	SOCS box. The SOCS box acts as a bridge between specific substrate- binding domains and more generic proteins that comprise a large family of E3 ubiquitin protein ligases.
UPF0564	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0564. This family of proteins has no known function. However, one of the members is annotated as an EF-hand family protein.
DUF247	Plant protein of unknown function. The function of the plant proteins constituting this family is unknown.
DUF1744	Domain of unknown function (DUF1744). This domain is found on the epsilon catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase. It is found C terminal to pfam03104 and pfam00136.
SRI	SRI (Set2 Rpb1 interacting) domain. The SRI (Set2 Rpb1 interacting) domain mediates RNA polymerase II interaction and couples histone H3 K36 methylation with transcript elongation. This domain is conserved from yeast to humans.
Mo25	Mo25-like. Mo25-like proteins are involved in both polarised growth and cytokinesis. In fission yeast Mo25 is localised alternately to the spindle pole body and to the site cell division in a cell cycle dependent manner.
Pet191_N	Cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein PET191. Pet191_N is the conserved N-terminal of a family of conserved proteins found from nematodes to humans. It carries six highly conserved cysteine residues. Pet191 is required for the assembly of active cytochrome c oxidase but does not form part of the final assembled complex.
EII-Sor	PTS system sorbose-specific iic component. 
DUF179	Uncharacterized ACR, COG1678. 
Circo_capsid	Circovirus capsid protein. Circoviruses are small circular single stranded viruses. This family is the capsid protein from viruses such as porcine circovirus and beak and feather disease virus. These proteins are about 220 amino acids long.
VID27	VID27 cytoplasmic protein. This is a family of fungal and plant proteins and contains many hypothetical proteins. VID27 is a cytoplasmic protein that plays a potential role in vacuolar protein degradation.
Ubiq-Cytc-red_N	Ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase 8 kDa, N-terminal. Members of this family adopt a structure consisting of many antiparallel beta sheets, with few alpha helices, in a non-globular arrangement. They are required for proper functioning of the respiratory chain.
FA_desaturase_2	Fatty acid desaturase. 
UPF0242	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0242). 
DctM	DctM-like transporters. This family contains a diverse range of predicted transporter proteins. Including the DctM subunit of the bacterial and archaeal TRAP C4-dicarboxylate transport (Dct) system permease. In general, C4-dicarboxylate transport systems allow C4-dicarboxylates like succinate, fumarate, and malate to be taken up. TRAP C4-dicarboxylate carriers are secondary carriers that use an electrochemical H+ gradient as the driving force for transport. DctM is an integral membrane protein that is one of the constituents of TRAP carriers. Note that many family members are hypothetical proteins.
DUF390	Protein of unknown function (DUF390). This family of long proteins are currently only found in the rice genome. They have no known function. However they may be some kind of transposable element.
Vac_ImportDeg	Vacuolar import and degradation protein. Members of this family are involved in the negative regulation of gluconeogenesis. They are required for both proteosome-dependent and vacuolar catabolite degradation of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), where they probably regulate FBPase targeting from the FBPase-containing vesicles to the vacuole.
ATP-synt_C	ATP synthase subunit C. 
UPF0016	Uncharacterized protein family UPF0016. This family contains integral membrane proteins of unknown function. Most members of the family contain two copies of a region that contains an EXGD motif. Each of these regions contains three predicted transmembrane regions.
DUF2353	Uncharacterized coiled-coil protein (DUF2353). Members of this family of uncharacterised proteins have no known function.
MtmB	Monomethylamine methyltransferase MtmB. Monomethylamine methyltransferase of the archaebacterium Methanosarcina barkeri contains a novel amino acid, pyrrolysine, encoded by the termination codon UAG. The structure reveals a homohexamer comprised of individual subunits with a TIM barrel fold.
Ketoacyl-synt_C	Beta-ketoacyl synthase, C-terminal domain. The structure of beta-ketoacyl synthase is similar to that of the thiolase family (pfam00108) and also chalcone synthase. The active site of beta-ketoacyl synthase is located between the N and C-terminal domains.
CcmH	Cytochrome C biogenesis protein. Members of this family include NrfF, CcmH, CycL, Ccl2.
DUF1298	Protein of unknown function (DUF1298). This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 170 residues) of a number of hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function.
Prot_inhib_II	Potato type II proteinase inhibitor family. Members of this family are proteinase inhibitors that contain eight cysteines that form four disulphide bridges. The structure of the proteinase-inhibitor complex is known.
E2F_TDP	E2F/DP family winged-helix DNA-binding domain. This family contains the transcription factor E2F and its dimerisation partners TDP1 and TDP2, which stimulate E2F-dependent transcription. E2F binds to DNA as a homodimer or as a heterodimer in association with TDP1/2, the heterodimer having increased binding efficiency. The crystal structure of an E2F4-DP2-DNA complex shows that the DNA-binding domains of the E2F and DP proteins both have a fold related to the winged-helix DNA-binding motif. Recognition of the central c/gGCGCg/c sequence of the consensus DNA-binding site is symmetric, and amino acids that contact these bases are conserved among all known E2F and DP proteins.
DUF2269	Predicted integral membrane protein (DUF2269). Members of this family of bacterial hypothetical integral membrane proteins have no known function.
IL17	Interleukin-17. IL-17 is a potent proinflammatory cytokine produced by activated memory T cells. The IL-17 family is thought to represent a distinct signaling system that appears to have been highly conserved across vertebrate evolution.
Hydrophobin_2	Fungal hydrophobin. This is a family of fungal hydrophobins that seems to be restricted to ascomycetes. These are small, moderately hydrophobic extracellular proteins that have eight cysteine residues arranged in a strictly conserved motif. Hydrophobins are generally found on the outer surface of conidia and of the hyphal wall, and may be involved in mediating contact and communication between the fungus and its environment. Note that some family members contain multiple copies.
Aerolysin	Aerolysin toxin. This family represents the pore forming lobe of aerolysin.
MIP-T3	Microtubule-binding protein MIP-T3. This protein, which interacts with both microtubules and TRAF3 (tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 3), is conserved from worms to humans. The N-terminal region is the microtubule binding domain and is well-conserved; the C-terminal 100 residues, also well-conserved, constitute the coiled-coil region which binds to TRAF3. The central region of the protein is rich in lysine and glutamic acid and carries KKE motifs which may also be necessary for tubulin-binding, but this region is the least well-conserved.
CheW	CheW-like domain. CheW proteins are part of the chemotaxis signaling mechanism in bacteria. CheW interacts with the methyl accepting chemotaxis proteins (MCPs) and relays signals to CheY, which affects flageller rotation. This family includes CheW and other related proteins that are involved in chemotaxis. The CheW-like regulatory domain in CheA binds to CheW, suggesting that these domains can interact with each other.
Nexin_C	Sorting nexin C terminal. This region is found a the C terminal of proteins belonging to the sorting nexin family. It is found on proteins which also contain pfam00787.
EMP24_GP25L	emp24/gp25L/p24 family/GOLD. Members of this family are implicated in bringing cargo forward from the ER and binding to coat proteins by their cytoplasmic domains. This domain corresponds closely to the beta-strand rich GOLD domain. The GOLD domain is always found combined with lipid- or membrane-association domains.
DUF829	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF829). This family consists of several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
ResIII	Type III restriction enzyme, res subunit. 
PDH	Prephenate dehydrogenase. Members of this family are prephenate dehydrogenases EC:1.3.1.12 involved in tyrosine biosynthesis.
Pox_A12	Poxvirus A12 protein. 
TAFII55_N	TAFII55 protein conserved region. The general transcription factor, TFIID, consists of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) associated with a series of TBP-associated factors (TAFs) that together participate in the assembly of the transcription preinitiation complex. TAFII55 binds to TAFII250 and inhibits it acetyltransferase activity. The exact role of TAFII55 is currently unknown. The conserved region is situated towards the N-terminus of the protein.
Virus_HS	Virion host shutoff protein. This family consists of virion host shutoff (VHS) proteins from various herpes viruses as well as varicella zoster virus and pseudorabies virus. The VHS proteins inhibit cellular gene expression in infected cells. The VHS polypeptide destabilises preexisting host mRNAs and ensures rapid turn over of viral mRNAs.
Protocadherin	Protocadherin. The structure of protocadherins is similar to that of classic cadherins (pfam00028), but particularly on the cytoplasmic domains they also have some unique features. They are expressed in a variety of organisms and are found in high concentrations in the brain where they seem to be localised mainly at cell-cell contact sites. Their expression seems to be developmentally regulated.
YbaK	YbaK / prolyl-tRNA synthetases associated domain. This domain of unknown function is found in numerous prokaryote organisms. The structure of YbaK shows a novel fold. This domain also occurs in a number of prolyl-tRNA synthetases (proRS) from prokaryotes. Thus, the domain is thought to be involved in oligo-nucleotide binding, with possible roles in recognition/discrimination or editing of prolyl-tRNA.
KdpA	Potassium-transporting ATPase A subunit. 
E1-E2_ATPase	E1-E2 ATPase. 
DUF678	Protein of unknown function (DUF678). This family contains several poxvirus proteins of unknown function.
CBM49	Carbohydrate binding domain CBM49. This domain is found at the C terminal of cellulases and in vitro binding studies have shown it to binds to crystalline cellulose.
AflR	Aflatoxin regulatory protein. This domain is found in the aflatoxin regulatory protein (AflR) which is involved in the regulation of the biosynthesis of aflatoxin in the fungal genus Aspergillus. It occurs together with the fungal Zn(2)-Cys(6) binuclear cluster domain (pfam00172).
DUF904	Protein of unknown function (DUF904). This family consists of several bacterial and archaeal hypothetical proteins of unknown function.
DUF868	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF868). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The function of this family is unknown.
Ubiq_cyt_C_chap	Ubiquinol-cytochrome C chaperone. 
CAP_N	Adenylate cyclase associated (CAP) N terminal. 
TT_ORF1	TT viral orf 1. TT virus (TTV), isolated initially from a Japanese patient with hepatitis of unknown aetiology, has since been found to infect both healthy and diseased individuals and numerous prevalence studies have raised questions about its role in unexplained hepatitis. ORF1 is a large 750 residue protein.
PhageMaj_Tail	Phage major tail protein, TP901-1. Characterised members are major tail proteins from various phage, including lactococcal temperate bacteriophage TP901-1.
TFP11	Tuftelin interacting protein 11. This family contains tuftelin interacting protein 11 which has been identified as both a nuclear and cytoplasmic protein, and has been implicated in the secretory pathway. Sip1, a septin interacting protein is also a member of this family. Proteins in this family often contain pfam01595.
BP28CT	BP28CT (NUC211) domain. This C terminal domain is found in BAP28-like nucleolar proteins.
tRNA-synt_2	tRNA synthetases class II (D, K and N). 
DNA_pol3_alpha	Bacterial DNA polymerase III alpha subunit. 
PAP_RNA-bind	Poly(A) polymerase predicted RNA binding domain. Based on its similarity structurally to the RNA recognition motif this domain is thought to be RNA binding.
DUF1138	Protein of unknown function (DUF1138). This family consists of several hypothetical short plant proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The function of this family is unknown.
zf-GRF	GRF zinc finger. This presumed zinc binding domain is found in a variety of DNA-binding proteins. It seems likely that this domain is involved in nucleic acid binding. It is named GRF after three conserved residues in the centre of the alignment of the domain. This zinc finger may be related to pfam01396.
EPSP_synthase	EPSP synthase (3-phosphoshikimate 1-carboxyvinyltransferase). 
B3_4	B3/4 domain. This domain is found in tRNA synthetase beta subunits as well as in some non tRNA synthetase proteins.
Peptidase_A8	Signal peptidase (SPase) II. 
DUF1604	Protein of unknown function (DUF1604). This family is found at the N-terminus of several eukaryotic RNA processing proteins.
DUF285	Mycoplasma protein of unknown function, DUF285. 
A_deaminase	Adenosine/AMP deaminase. 
DUF1674	Protein of unknown function (DUF1674). The members of this family are sequences derived from hypothetical eukaryotic and bacterial proteins. The region in question is approximately 60 residues long.
DUF1405	Protein of unknown function (DUF1405). This family consists of several bacterial and related archaeal protein of around 180 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DPPIV_N	Dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV) N-terminal region. This family is an alignment of the region to the N-terminal side of the active site. The Prosite motif does not correspond to this Pfam entry.
WTF	WTF protein. This is a family of hypothetical Schizosaccharomyces pombe proteins. Their function is unknown.
Peptidase_A3	Cauliflower mosaic virus peptidase (A3). 
NUFIP1	Nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 (NUFIP1). Proteins in this family have been implicated in the assembly of the large subunit of the ribosome and in telomere maintenance. Some proteins in this family contain a CCCH zinc finger. This family contains a protein called human fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1, which is known to bind RNA and is phosphorylated upon DNA damage.
JmjN	jmjN domain. 
DUF1754	Eukaryotic family of unknown function (DUF1754). This is a eukaryotic protein family of unknown function.
LNS2	LNS2 (Lipin/Ned1/Smp2). This domain is found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein SMP2, proteins with an N-terminal lipin domain (Pfam: PF04571) and phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins. SMP2 (also known as PAH1) is involved in plasmid maintenance and respiration, and has been identified as a Mg2+-dependent phosphatidate phosphatase (EC:3.1.3.4) that contains a haloacid dehalogenase (HAD)-like domain. Lipin proteins are involved in adipose tissue development and insulin resistance.
PDE6_gamma	Retinal cGMP phosphodiesterase, gamma subunit. Retinal rod and cone cGMP phosphodiesterases function as the effector enzymes in the vertebrate visual transduction cascade. This family represents the inhibitory gamma subunit, which is also expressed outside retinal tissues and has been shown to interact with the G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 signalling system to regulate the epidermal growth factor- and thrombin-dependent stimulation of p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase in human embryonic kidney 293 cells.
CorC_HlyC	Transporter associated domain. This small domain is found in a family of proteins with the pfam01595 domain and two CBS domains with this domain found at the C-terminus of the proteins, the domain is also found at the C terminus of some Na+/H+ antiporters. This domain is also found in CorC that is involved in Magnesium and cobalt efflux. The function of this domain is uncertain but might be involved in modulating transport of ion substrates.
GARS_A	Phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase, ATP-grasp (A) domain. Phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase catalyses the second step in the de novo biosynthesis of purine. The reaction catalysed by Phosphoribosylglycinamide synthetase is the ATP- dependent addition of 5-phosphoribosylamine to glycine to form 5'phosphoribosylglycinamide. This domain is related to the ATP-grasp domain of biotin carboxylase/carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (see pfam02786).
DUF24	HxlR-like helix-turn-helix. HxlR, a member of this family, is a DNA-binding protein that acts as a positive regulator of the formaldehyde-inducible hxlAB operon in Bacillus subtilis.
Herpes_BBRF1	BRRF1-like protein. Family of herpesvirus proteins including Epstein-barr virus protein BBRF1.
RE_XcyI	XcyI restriction endonuclease. This family includes the XcyI (recognises and cleaves C^CCGGG) restriction endonucleases.
Virul_Fac	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria, putative virulence factor. Members of this family of prokaryotic proteins include various putative virulence factor effector proteins. Their exact function is, as yet, unknown.
CXC	Tesmin/TSO1-like CXC domain. This family includes proteins that have two copies of a cysteine rich motif as follows: C-X-C-X4-C-X3-YC-X-C-X6-C-X3-C-X-C-X2-C. The family includes Tesmin and TSO1. This family is called a CXC domain in some references.
7tm_2	7 transmembrane receptor (Secretin family). This family is known as Family B, the secretin-receptor family or family 2 of the G-protein-coupled receptors (GCPRs).They have been described in many animal species, but not in plants, fungi or prokaryotes. Three distinct sub-families are recognised. Subfamily B1 contains classical hormone receptors, such as receptors for secretin and glucagon, that are all involved in cAMP-mediated signalling pathways. Subfamily B2 contains receptors with long extracellular N-termini, such as the leukocyte cell-surface antigen CD97; calcium-independent receptors for latrotoxin, and brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitors amongst others. Subfamily B3 includes Methuselah and other Drosophila proteins. Other than the typical seven-transmembrane region, characteristic structural features include an amino-terminal extracellular domain involved in ligand binding, and an intracellular loop (IC3) required for specific G-protein coupling.
MRP-S27	Mitochondrial 28S ribosomal protein S27. Members of this family of small ribosomal proteins possess one of three conserved blocks of sequence found in proteins that stimulate the dissociation of guanine nucleotides from G-proteins, leaving open the possibility that MRP-S27 might be a functional partner of GTP-binding ribosomal proteins.
Glyco_hydro_2_N	Glycosyl hydrolases family 2, sugar binding domain. This family contains beta-galactosidase, beta-mannosidase and beta-glucuronidase activities and has a jelly-roll fold.
TraU	TraU protein. This family consists of several bacterial TraU proteins. TraU appears to be more essential to conjugal DNA transfer than to assembly of pilus filaments.
DUF841	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF841). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins with no known function.
5-FTHF_cyc-lig	5-formyltetrahydrofolate cyclo-ligase family. 5-formyltetrahydrofolate cyclo-ligase or methenyl-THF synthetase EC:6.3.3.2 catalyses the interchange of 5-formyltetrahydrofolate (5-FTHF) to 5-10-methenyltetrahydrofolate, this requires ATP and Mg2+. 5-FTHF is used in chemotherapy where it is clinically known as Leucovorin.
DUF267	Caenorhabditis protein of unknown function, DUF267. 
MFS_1	Major Facilitator Superfamily. 
Lectin_legB	Legume lectin domain. 
Ribosomal_L21e	Ribosomal protein L21e. 
Ssu72	Ssu72-like protein. The highly conserved and essential protein Ssu72 has intrinsic phosphatase activity and plays an essential role in the transcription cycle. Ssu72 was originally identified in a yeast genetic screen as enhancer of a defect caused by a mutation in the transcription initiation factor TFIIB. It binds to TFIIB and is also involved in mRNA elongation. Ssu72 is further involved in both poly(A) dependent and independent termination. It is a subunit of the yeast cleavage and polyadenylation factor (CPF), which is part of the machinery for mRNA 3'-end formation. Ssu72 is also essential for transcription termination of snRNAs.
Staphostatin_B	Staphostatin B. Staphostatin B inhibits the cysteine protease Staphopain B, produced by Staphylococcus aureus, by blocking the active site of the enzyme. The domain adopts an eight-stranded mixed beta-barrel structure, with a deviation from the up-down topology of canonical beta-barrels in the amino-terminal part of the molecule.
Rifin_STEVOR	Rifin/stevor family. Several multicopy gene families have been described in Plasmodium falciparum, including the stevor family of subtelomeric open reading frames and the rif interspersed repetitive elements. Both families contain three predicted transmembrane segments. It has been proposed that stevor and rif are members of a larger superfamily that code for variant surface antigens.
GDNF	GDNF/GAS1 domain. This cysteine rich domain is found in multiple copies in GNDF and GAS1 proteins. GDNF and neurturin (NTN) receptors are potent survival factors for sympathetic, sensory and central nervous system neurons. GDNF and neurturin promote neuronal survival by signaling through similar multicomponent receptors that consist of a common receptor tyrosine kinase and a member of a GPI-linked family of receptors that determines ligand specificity.
Pneumo_M2	Pneumovirus M2 protein. This family consists of several Pneumovirus M2 proteins. The M2-1 protein of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a transcription processivity factor that is essential for virus replication.
RNA_pol_Rpb4	RNA polymerase Rpb4. 
ThiC	ThiC family. ThiC is found within the thiamine biosynthesis operon. ThiC is involved in pyrimidine biosynthesis. The precise catalytic function of ThiC is still not known. ThiC participates in the formation of 4-Amino-5-hydroxymethyl-2-methylpyrimidine from AIR, an intermediate in the de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis.
FtsK_SpoIIIE	FtsK/SpoIIIE family. FtsK has extensive sequence similarity to wide variety of proteins from prokaryotes and plasmids, termed the FtsK/SpoIIIE family. This domain contains a putative ATP binding P-loop motif. It is found in the FtsK cell division protein from Escherichia coli and the stage III sporulation protein E SpoIIIE, which has roles in regulation of prespore specific gene expression in B. subtilis. A mutation in FtsK causes a temperature sensitive block in cell division and it is involved in peptidoglycan synthesis or modification. The SpoIIIE protein is implicated in intercellular chromosomal DNA transfer.
VWA	von Willebrand factor type A domain. 
SIR2	Sir2 family. This region is characteristic of Silent information regulator 2 (Sir2) proteins, or sirtuins. These are protein deacetylases that depend on nicotine adenine dinucleotide (NAD). They are found in many subcellular locations, including the nucleus, cytoplasm and mitochondria. Eukaryotic forms play in important role in the regulation of transcriptional repression. Moreover, they are involved in microtubule organisation and DNA damage repair processes.
Mur_ligase_M	Mur ligase middle domain. 
DUF974	Protein of unknown function (DUF974). Family of uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
PCMT	Protein-L-isoaspartate(D-aspartate) O-methyltransferase (PCMT). 
Ribosomal_L23	Ribosomal protein L23. 
SLT	Transglycosylase SLT domain. This family is distantly related to pfam00062. Members are found in phages, type II, type III and type IV secretion systems (reviewed in).
COX3	Cytochrome c oxidase subunit III. 
Asp_Glu_race	Asp/Glu/Hydantoin racemase. This family contains aspartate racemase, glutamate racemase, hydantoin racemase and arylmalonate decarboxylase.
GatB_Yqey	GatB domain. This domain is found in GatB. It is about 140 amino acid residues long. This domain is found at the C terminus of GatB, which transamidates Glu-tRNA to Gln-tRNA.
DUF2079	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2079). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
SIM_C	Single-minded protein C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminal region of the eukaryotic single-minded (SIM) protein. Drosophila single-minded acts as a positive master gene regulator in central nervous system midline formation. There are two homologues in mammals: SIM1 and SIM2, which are members of the basic-helix-loop-helix PAS family of transcription factors. SIM1 and SIM2 are novel heterodimerisation partners for ARNT in vitro, and they may function both as positive and negative transcriptional regulators in vivo, during embryogenesis and in the adult organism. SIM2 is thought to contribute to some specific Down syndrome phenotypes. This family is found in conjunction with a pfam00989 domain and associated pfam00785 motif.
NAD-GH	NAD-specific glutamate dehydrogenase. The members of this are annotated as being NAD-specific glutamate dehydrogenase encoded in antisense gene pair with DnaK-J. However, this could not be confirmed.
CIA30	Complex I intermediate-associated protein 30 (CIA30). This protein is associated with mitochondrial Complex I intermediate-associated protein 30 (CIA30) in human and mouse. The family is also present in Schizosaccharomyces pombe which does not contain the NADH dehydrogenase component of complex I, or many of the other essential subunits. This means it is possible that this family of protein may not be directly involved in oxidative phosphorylation.
DUF460	Protein of unknown function (DUF460). Archaeal protein of unknown function.
S6PP	Sucrose-6F-phosphate phosphohydrolase. This family consists of Sucrose-6F-phosphate phosphohydrolase proteins found in plants and cyanobacteria. Sucrose-6(F)-phosphate phosphohydrolase catalyses the final step in the pathway of sucrose biosynthesis.
Peptidase_C41	Hepatitis E cysteine protease. Corresponds to Merops family C41. This papain-like protease cleaves the viral polyprotein encoded by ORF1 of the hepatitis E virus (HEV).
Herpes_UL46	Herpesvirus UL46 protein. 
BRCA2	BRCA2 repeat. The alignment covers only the most conserved region of the repeat.
AUX_IAA	AUX/IAA family. Transcription of the AUX/IAA family of genes is rapidly induced by the plant hormone auxin. Some members of this family are longer and contain an N terminal DNA binding domain. The function of this region is uncertain.
DMRL_synthase	6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityllumazine synthase. This family includes the beta chain of 6,7-dimethyl-8- ribityllumazine synthase EC:2.5.1.9, an enzyme involved in riboflavin biosynthesis. The family also includes a subfamily of distant archaebacterial proteins that may also have the same function.
ArsB	Arsenical pump membrane protein. 
Kri1	KRI1-like family. The yeast member of this family (Kri1p) is found to be required for 40S ribosome biogenesis in the nucleolus.
DsbB	Disulfide bond formation protein DsbB. This family consists of disulfide bond formation protein DsbB from bacteria. The DsbB protein oxidises the periplasmic protein DsbA which in turn oxidises cysteines in other periplasmic proteins in order to make disulfide bonds. DsbB acts as a redox potential transducer across the cytoplasmic membrane and is an integral membrane protein. DsbB posses six cysteines four of which are necessary for it proper function in vivo.
Lung_7-TM_R	Lung seven transmembrane receptor. This family represents a conserved region with eukaryotic lung seven transmembrane receptors and related proteins.
PAF-AH_p_II	Platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase, plasma/intracellular isoform II. Platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH) is a subfamily of phospholipases A2, responsible for inactivation of platelet-activating factor through cleavage of an acetyl group. Three known PAF-AHs are the brain heterotrimeric PAF-AH Ib, whose catalytic beta and gamma subunits are aligned in pfam02266, the extracellular, plasma PAF-AH (pPAF-AH), and the intracellular PAF-AH isoform II (PAF-AH II). This family aligns pPAF-AH and PAF-AH II, whose similarity was previously noted.
TFIIA_gamma_N	Transcription initiation factor IIA, gamma subunit, helical domain. Accurate transcription in vivo requires at least six general transcription initiation factors, in addition to RNA polymerase II. Transcription initiation factor IIA (TFIIA) is a multimeric protein which facilitates the binding of TFIID to the TATA box. The N-terminal domain of the gamma subunit is a 4 helix bundle.
DUF966	Domain of unknown function (DUF966). Family of plant proteins with unknown function.
Plant_NMP1	Plant nuclear matrix protein 1 (NMP1). This family consists of several plant specific nuclear matrix protein 1 (NMP1) sequences. Nuclear Matrix Protein 1 is a ubiquitously expressed 36 kDa protein, which has no homologues in animals and fungi, but is highly conserved among flowering and non-flowering plants. NMP1 is located both in the cytoplasm and nucleus and that the nuclear fraction is associated with the nuclear matrix. NMP1 is a candidate for a plant-specific structural protein with a function both in the nucleus and cytoplasm.
XPC-binding	XPC-binding domain. Members of this family adopt a structure consisting of four alpha helices, arranged in an array. They bind specifically and directly to the xeroderma pigmentosum group C protein (XPC) to initiate nucleotide excision repair.
CRISPR_assoc	CRISPR associated protein. This domain forms an anti-parallel beta strand structure with flanking alpha helical regions.
PilZ	PilZ domain. This domain is found in a wide variety of bacterial signalling proteins.
Not3	Not1 N-terminal domain, CCR4-Not complex component. 
Securin	Securin sister-chromatid separation inhibitor. Securin is also known as pituitary tumour-transforming gene product. Over-expression of securin is associated with a number of tumours, and it has been proposed that this may be due to erroneous chromatid separation leading to chromosome gain or loss.
COG5	Golgi transport complex subunit 5. The COG complex, the peripheral membrane oligomeric protein complex involved in intra-Golgi protein trafficking, consists of eight subunits arranged in two lobes bridged by Cog1. Cog5 is in the smaller, B lobe, bound in with Cog6-8, and is itself bound to Cog1 as well as, strongly, to Cog7.
Oxidored_q2	NADH-ubiquinone/plastoquinone oxidoreductase chain 4L. 
Hin1	Harpin-induced protein 1 (Hin1). This family contains a number of plant harpin-induced 1 (Hin1) proteins, which are involved in the plant hypersensitive response (HR).
DUF990	Protein of unknown function (DUF990). This family consists of a number of hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function. They seem to be related to ABC-2 type transporters (pfam01061).
Transposase_35	Putative transposase DNA-binding domain. This putative domain is found at the C-terminus of a large number of transposase proteins. This domain contains four conserved cysteines suggestive of a zinc binding domain. Given the need for transposases to bind DNA as well as the large number of DNA-binding zinc fingers we hypothesise this domain is DNA-binding.
Peptidase_M16_C	Peptidase M16 inactive domain. Peptidase M16 consists of two structurally related domains. One is the active peptidase, whereas the other is inactive. The two domains hold the substrate like a clamp.
FlgI	Flagellar P-ring protein. 
PD40	WD40-like Beta Propeller Repeat. This family appears to be related to the pfam00400 repeat (personal obs: C Yeats). This model is likely to miss copies within a sequence. This repeat corresponds to the RIVW repeat identified in cell surface proteins [Adindla et al. Comparative and Functional Genomics 2004; 5:2-16].
RNase_PH	3' exoribonuclease family, domain 1. This family includes 3'-5' exoribonucleases. Ribonuclease PH contains a single copy of this domain, and removes nucleotide residues following the -CCA terminus of tRNA. Polyribonucleotide nucleotidyltransferase (PNPase) contains two tandem copies of the domain. PNPase is involved in mRNA degradation in a 3'-5' direction. The exosome is a 3'-5' exoribonuclease complex that is required for 3' processing of the 5.8S rRNA. Three of its five protein components contain a copy of this domain. A hypothetical protein from S. pombe appears to belong to an uncharacterised subfamily. This subfamily is found in both eukaryotes and archaebacteria.
SP2	Structural protein 2. This family represents structural protein 2 of the hepatitis E virus. The high basic amino acid content of this protein has lead to the suggestion of a role in viral genomic RNA encapsidation.
Alg14	Oligosaccharide biosynthesis protein Alg14 like. Alg14 is involved dolichol-linked oligosaccharide biosynthesis and anchors the catalytic subunit Alg13 to the ER membrane.
VWA_CoxE	VWA domain containing CoxE-like protein. This family is annotated by SMART as containing a VWA type domain. The exact function of this family is unknown. It is found as part of a CO oxidising (Cox) system operon is several bacteria.
DUF427	Domain of unknown function (DUF427). 
Aminotran_4	Aminotransferase class IV. The D-amino acid transferases (D-AAT) are required by bacteria to catalyse the synthesis of D-glutamic acid and D-alanine, which are essential constituents of bacterial cell wall and are the building block for other D-amino acids. Despite the difference in the structure of the substrates, D-AATs and L-ATTs have strong similarity.
CBM_4_9	Carbohydrate binding domain. This family includes diverse carbohydrate binding domains.
6PF2K	6-phosphofructo-2-kinase. This enzyme occurs as a bifunctional enzyme with fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase. The bifunctional enzyme catalyses both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, a potent regulator of glycolysis. This enzyme contains a P-loop motif.
CTP_transf_1	Cytidylyltransferase family. The members of this family are integral membrane protein cytidylyltransferases. The family includes phosphatidate cytidylyltransferase EC:2.7.7.41 as well as Sec59 from yeast. Sec59 is a dolichol kinase EC:2.7.1.108.
G10	G10 protein. 
Tic20	Chloroplast import component protein (Tic20). Chloroplast function requires the import of nuclear encoded proteins from the cytoplasm across the chloroplast double membrane. This is accomplished by two protein complexes, the Toc complex located at the outer membrane and the Tic complex located at the inner membrane. The Toc complex recognises specific proteins by a cleavable N-terminal sequence and is primarily responsible for translocation through the outer membrane, while the Tic complex translocates the protein through the inner membrane. This entry represents Tic20, a core member of the Tic complex. This protein is deeply embedded in the inner envelope membrane and is thought to function as a protein conducting component of the Tic complex.
GIY-YIG	GIY-YIG catalytic domain. This domain called GIY-YIG is found in the amino terminal region of excinuclease abc subunit c (uvrC), bacteriophage T4 endonucleases segA, segB, segC, segD and segE; it is also found in putative endonucleases encoded by group I introns of fungi and phage. The structure of I-TevI a GIY-YIG endonuclease, reveals a novel alpha/beta-fold with a central three-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet flanked by three helices. The most conserved and putative catalytic residues are located on a shallow, concave surface and include a metal coordination site.
ThiF	ThiF family. This family contains a repeated domain in ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 and members of the bacterial ThiF/MoeB/HesA family.
DUF1976	Domain of unknown function (DUF1976). Members of this family are found in a set of hypothetical Mycoplasmal proteins. Their exact function has not, as yet, been defined.
NMD3	NMD3 family. The NMD3 protein is involved in nonsense mediated mRNA decay. This amino terminal region contains four conserved CXXC motifs that could be metal binding. NMD3 is involved in export of the 60S ribosomal subunit is mediated by the adapter protein Nmd3p in a Crm1p-dependent pathway.
Metallothio_PEC	Plant PEC family metallothionein. 
IspD	Uncharacterized protein family UPF0007. 
Abhydrolase_3	alpha/beta hydrolase fold. This catalytic domain is found in a very wide range of enzymes.
Cornifin	Cornifin (SPRR) family. SPRR genes (formerly SPR) encode a novel class of polypeptides (small proline rich proteins) that are strongly induced during differentiation of human epidermal keratinocytes in vitro and in vivo.The most characteristic feature of the SPRR gene family resides in the structure of the central segments of the encoded polypeptides that are built up from tandemly repeated units of either eight (SPRR1 and SPRR3) or nine (SPRR2) amino acids with the general consensus XKXPEPXX where X is any amino acid.
HLH	Helix-loop-helix DNA-binding domain. 
Hap2_elong	Histone acetylation protein 2. Hap2 is one of three histone acetyltransferases proteins that, in yeasts, are found associated with elongating forms of RNA polymerase II (Elongator). The Haps can be isolated in two forms, as a six-subunit complex with Elongator and as a complex of the three proteins on their own. The role of the Hap complex in transcription is still speculative, being possibly to keep the HAT activity of free Elongator in check, allowing histone acetylation only in the presence of a transcribing polymerase, or the interaction with Haps might render Elongator susceptible to modifications thereby altering its activity.
LTV	Low temperature viability protein. The low-temperature viability protein LTV1 is involved in ribosome biogenesis 40S subunit production.
MARVEL	Membrane-associating domain. MARVEL domain-containing proteins are often found in lipid-associating proteins - such as Occludin and MAL family proteins. It may be part of the machinery of membrane apposition events, such as transport vesicle biogenesis.
IlvC	Acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase, catalytic domain. Acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase catalyses the conversion of acetohydroxy acids into dihydroxy valerates. This reaction is the second in the synthetic pathway of the essential branched side chain amino acids valine and isoleucine.
Hep_59	Hepatocellular carcinoma-associated antigen 59. This family represents a conserved region approximately 100 residues long within mammalian hepatocellular carcinoma-associated antigen 59 and similar proteins. Family members are found in a variety of eukaryotes, mainly as hypothetical proteins.
BCDHK_Adom3	Mitochondrial branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase kinase. Catabolism and synthesis of leucine, isoleucine and valine are finely balanced, allowing the body to make the most of dietary input but removing excesses to prevent toxic build-up of their corresponding keto-acids. This is the butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, subunit A domain 3, a largely alpha-helical bundle of the enzyme BCDHK. This enzyme is the regulator of the dehydrogenase complex that breaks branched-chain amino-acids down, by phosphorylating and thereby inactivating it when synthesis is required. The domain is associated with family HATPase_c pfam02518 which is towards the C-terminal.
DUF28	Domain of unknown function DUF28. This domain is found in bacterial and yeast proteins it compromises the entire length or central region of most of the proteins in the family, all of which are hypothetical with no known function. The average length of this domain is approximately 230 amino acids long.
zf-ZPR1	ZPR1 zinc-finger domain. The zinc-finger protein ZPR1 is ubiquitous among eukaryotes. It is indeed known to be an essential protein in yeast. In quiescent cells, ZPR1 is localised to the cytoplasm. But in proliferating cells treated with EGF or with other mitogens, ZPR1 accumulates in the nucleolus. ZPR1 interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of the inactive EGF receptor (EGFR) and is thought to inhibit the basal protein tyrosine kinase activity of EGFR. This interaction is disrupted when cells are treated with EGF, though by themselves, inactive EGFRs are not sufficient to sequester ZPR1 to the cytoplasm. Upon stimulation by EGF, ZPR1 directly binds the eukaryotic translation elongation factor-1alpha (eEF-1alpha) to form ZPR1/eEF-1alpha complexes. These move into the nucleus, localising particularly at the nucleolus. Indeed, the interaction between ZPR1 and eEF-1alpha has been shown to be essential for normal cellular proliferation, and ZPR1 is thought to be involved in pre-ribosomal RNA expression. The ZPR1 domain consists of an elongation initiation factor 2-like zinc finger and a double-stranded beta helix with a helical hairpin insertion. ZPR1 binds preferentially to GDP-bound eEF1A but does not directly influence the kinetics of nucleotide exchange or GTP hydrolysis. The alignment for this family shows a domain of which there are two copies in ZPR1 proteins. This family also includes several hypothetical archaeal proteins (from both Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota), which only contain one copy of the aligned region. This similarity between ZPR1 and archaeal proteins was not previously noted.
Ribosomal_S26e	Ribosomal protein S26e. 
Rad21_Rec8	Conserved region of Rad21 / Rec8 like protein. This family represents a conserved region found in eukaryotic cohesins of the Rad21, Rec8 and Scc1 families. Members of this family mediate sister chromatid cohesion during mitosis and meiosis, as part of the cohesin complex. Cohesion is necessary for homologous recombination (including double-strand break repair) and correct chromatid segregation. These proteins may also be involved in chromosome condensation. Dissociation at the metaphase to anaphase transition causes loss of cohesion and chromatid segregation.
Transmemb_17	Predicted membrane protein. This is a 100 amino acid region of a family of proteins conserved from nematodes to humans. It is predicted to be a transmembrane region but its function is not known.
GCK	GCK domain. This domain is found in proteins carrying other domains known to be involved in intracellular signalling pathways (such as pfam00071) indicating that it might also be involved in these pathways. It has 4 highly conserved cysteine residues, suggesting that it can bind zinc ions. Moreover, it is found repeated in some members of this family; this may indicate that these domains are able to interact with one another, raising the possibility that this domain mediates heterodimerisation.
CPT	Chloramphenicol phosphotransferase-like protein. The members of this family are all similar to chloramphenicol 3-O phosphotransferase (CPT) expressed by Streptomyces venezuelae. Chloramphenicol (Cm) is a metabolite produced by this bacterium that can inhibit ribosomal peptidyl transferase activity and therefore protein production. By transferring a phosphate group to the C-3 hydroxyl group of Cm, CPT inactivates this potentially lethal metabolite.
CD47	CD47 transmembrane region. This family represents the transmembrane region of CD47 leukocyte antigen.
Aminotran_3	Aminotransferase class-III. 
Tmemb_cc2	Predicted transmembrane and coiled-coil 2 protein. This family of transmembrane coiled-coil containing proteins is conserved from worms to humans. Its function is unknown.
RNA_pol_Rpb7_N	RNA polymerase Rpb7-like, N-terminal domain. Rpb7 bind to Rpb4 to form a heterodimer. This complex is thought to interact with the nascent RNA strand during RNA polymerase II elongation. This family includes the homologs from RNA polymerase I and III. In RNA polymerase I, Rpa43 is at least one of the subunits contacted by the transcription factor TIF-IA.
BUD22	BUD22. BUD22 has been shown in yeast to be a nuclear protein involved in bud-site selection. It plays a role in positioning the proximal bud pole signal.
UPF0164	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0164). This family of uncharacterised proteins are only found in Treponema pallidum. They contain a putative signal peptide so may be secreted proteins.
Pterin_bind	Pterin binding enzyme. This family includes a variety of pterin binding enzymes that all adopt a TIM barrel fold. The family includes dihydropteroate synthase EC:2.5.1.15 as well as a group methyltransferase enzymes including methyltetrahydrofolate, corrinoid iron-sulfur protein methyltransferase (MeTr) that catalyses a key step in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway of carbon dioxide fixation. It transfers the N5-methyl group from methyltetrahydrofolate (CH3-H4folate) to a cob(I)amide centre in another protein, the corrinoid iron-sulfur protein. MeTr is a member of a family of proteins that includes methionine synthase and methanogenic enzymes that activate the methyl group of methyltetra-hydromethano(or -sarcino)pterin.
MutL_C	MutL C terminal dimerisation domain. MutL and MutS are key components of the DNA repair machinery that corrects replication errors. MutS recognises mispaired or unpaired bases in a DNA duplex and in the presence of ATP, recruits MutL to form a DNA signaling complex for repair. The N terminal region of MutL contains the ATPase domain and the C terminal is involved in dimerisation.
Asp_protease	Aspartyl protease. This family of eukaryotic aspartyl proteases have a fold similar to retroviral proteases which implies they function proteolytically during regulated protein turnover.
rRNA_processing	rRNA processing. This is a family of fungal proteins that are involved in rRNA processing. In a localisation study they were found to localise to the nucleus and nucleolus.
DUF1846	Domain of unknown function (DUF1846). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised. Some members of the family are annotated as ATP-dependent peptidases. However, we can find no support for this annotation.
Oxidored_molyb	Oxidoreductase molybdopterin binding domain. This domain is found in a variety of oxidoreductases. This domain binds to a molybdopterin cofactor. Xanthine dehydrogenases, that also bind molybdopterin, have essentially no similarity.
Dala_Dala_lig_C	D-ala D-ala ligase C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminal, catalytic domain of the D-alanine-D-alanine ligase enzyme EC:6.3.2.4. D-Alanine is one of the central molecules of the cross-linking step of peptidoglycan assembly. There are three enzymes involved in the D-alanine branch of peptidoglycan biosynthesis: the pyridoxal phosphate-dependent D-alanine racemase (Alr), the ATP-dependent D-alanine:D-alanine ligase (Ddl), and the ATP-dependent D-alanine:D-alanine-adding enzyme (MurF).
DUF1057	Alpha/beta hydrolase of unknown function (DUF1057). This family consists of several Caenorhabditis elegans specific proteins of unknown function. Members of this family have an alpha/beta hydrolase fold.
RQC	RQC domain. This DNA-binding domain is found in the RecQ helicase among others and has a helix-turn-helix structure. The RQC domain, found only in RecQ family enzymes, is a high affinity G4 DNA binding domain.
HSP90	Hsp90 protein. 
BSD	BSD domain. This domain contains a distinctive -FW- motif. It is found in a family of eukaryotic transcription factors as well as a set of proteins of unknown function.
UPF0041	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0041). 
Ribosomal_S17	Ribosomal protein S17. 
BASP1	Brain acid soluble protein 1 (BASP1 protein). This family consists of several brain acid soluble protein 1 (BASP1) or neuronal axonal membrane protein NAP-22. The BASP1 is a neuron enriched Ca(2+)-dependent calmodulin-binding protein of unknown function.
Gti1_Pac2	Gti1/Pac2 family. In S. pombe the gti1 protein promotes the onset of gluconate uptake upon glucose starvation. In S. pombe the Pac2 protein controls the onset of sexual development, by inhibiting the expression of ste11, in a pathway that is independent of the cAMP cascade.
Fe-S_biosyn	Iron-sulphur cluster biosynthesis. This family is involved in iron-sulphur cluster biosynthesis. Its members include proteins that are involved in nitrogen fixation such as the HesB and HesB-like proteins.
OATP	Organic Anion Transporter Polypeptide (OATP) family. This family consists of several eukaryotic Organic-Anion-Transporting Polypeptides (OATPs). Several have been identified mostly in human and rat. Different OATPs vary in tissue distribution and substrate specificity. Since the numbering of different OATPs in particular species was based originally on the order of discovery, similarly numbered OATPs in humans and rats did not necessarily correspond in function, tissue distribution and substrate specificity (in spite of the name, some OATPs also transport organic cations and neutral molecules). Thus, Tamai et al. initiated the current scheme of using digits for rat OATPs and letters for human ones. Prostaglandin transporter (PGT) proteins are also considered to be OATP family members. In addition, the methotrexate transporter OATK is closely related to OATPs. This family also includes several predicted proteins from Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster. This similarity was not previously noted. Note: Members of this family are described (in the Swiss-Prot database) as belonging to the SLC21 family of transporters.
Rsm1	Rsm1-like. Rsm1 is a protein involved in mRNA export from the nucleus
BBE	Berberine and berberine like. This domain is found in the berberine bridge and berberine bridge- like enzymes which are involved in the biosynthesis of numerous isoquinoline alkaloids. They catalyse the transformation of the N-methyl group of (S)-reticuline into the C-8 berberine bridge carbon of (S)-scoulerine.
SYS1	Integral membrane protein S linking to the trans Golgi network. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins involved in protein trafficking between the late Golgi and endosome. They may also serve as a receptor for ADP-ribosylation factor-related protein 1 (ARFRP1). Sys1p is a small integral membrane protein with four predicted transmembrane domains that localises to the Trans Golgi network TGN in yeast and human cells.
Thg1	tRNAHis guanylyltransferase. The Thg1 protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is responsible for adding a GMP residue to the 5' end of tRNA His.
Ost4	Oligosaccaryltransferase. Ost4 is a very short, approximately 30 residues, enzyme found from fungi to vertebrates. It is a member of the ER oligosaccaryltansferase complex, EC 2.4.1.119, that catalyses the asparagine-linked glycosylation of proteins. It appears to be an integral membrane protein that mediates the en bloc transfer of a preassembled high-mannose oligosaccharide onto asparagine residues of nascent polypeptides as they enter the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER).
MPPN	MPPN (rrm-like) domain. The MPPN (Mitotic PhosphoProtein N' end) family is uncharacterised however it probably plays a role in the cell cycle because the family includes mitotic phosphoproteins. This family also includes a suppressor of thermosensitive mutations in the DNA polymerase delta gene (Pol III). The conserved central region appears to be distantly related to the pfam00076 domain, suggesting an RNA binding function for this protein (Bateman A. pers obs).
Parathyroid	Parathyroid hormone family. 
DUF745	Protein of unknown function (DUF745). This family consists of several uncharacterised Drosophila melanogaster proteins of unknown function.
AIRC	AIR carboxylase. Members of this family catalyse the decarboxylation of 1-(5-phosphoribosyl)-5-amino-4-imidazole-carboxylate (AIR). This family catalyse the sixth step of de novo purine biosynthesis. Some members of this family contain two copies of this domain.
Trigger_C	Bacterial trigger factor protein (TF) C-terminus. In the Escherichia coli cytosol, a fraction of the newly synthesised proteins requires the activity of molecular chaperones for folding to the native state. The major chaperones implicated in this folding process are the ribosome-associated Trigger Factor (TF), and the DnaK and GroEL chaperones with their respective co-chaperones. Trigger Factor is an ATP-independent chaperone and displays chaperone and peptidyl-prolyl-cis-trans-isomerase (PPIase) activities in vitro. It is composed of at least three domains, an N-terminal domain which mediates association with the large ribosomal subunit, a central substrate binding and PPIase domain with homology to FKBP proteins, and a C-terminal domain of unknown function. The positioning of TF at the peptide exit channel, together with its ability to interact with nascent chains as short as 57 residues renders TF a prime candidate for being the first chaperone that binds to the nascent polypeptide chains. This family represents the C-terminal region of the protein.
WLM	WLM domain. This is a predicted metallopeptidase domain called WLM (Wss1p-like metalloproteases). These are linked to the Ub-system by virtue of fusions with the UB-binding PUG (PUB), Ub-like, and Little Finger domains. More specifically, genetic evidence implicates the WLM family in de-SUMOylation.
Chorismate_synt	Chorismate synthase. 
GCS	Glutamate-cysteine ligase. This family represents the catalytic subunit of glutamate-cysteine ligase (E.C. 6.3.2.2), also known as gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS). This enzyme catalyses the rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of glutathione. The eukaryotic enzyme is a dimer of a heavy chain and a light chain with all the catalytic activity exhibited by the heavy chain (this family).
COX4_pro	Prokaryotic Cytochrome C oxidase subunit IV. Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that catalyses the final step of electron transfer through the respiratory chain on the mitochondrial inner membrane. This family is composed of cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4 from prokaryotes.
dCMP_cyt_deam_2	Cytidine and deoxycytidylate deaminase zinc-binding region. 
Gcd10p	Gcd10p family. eIF-3 is a multi-subunit complex that stimulates translation initiation in vitro at several different steps. This family corresponds to the gamma subunit if eIF3. The Yeast protein Gcd10p has also been shown to be part of a complex with the methyltransferase Gcd14p that is involved in modifying tRNA.
Ribosomal_S19	Ribosomal protein S19. 
Topoisom_I_N	Eukaryotic DNA topoisomerase I, DNA binding fragment. Topoisomerase I promotes the relaxation of DNA superhelical tension by introducing a transient single-stranded break in duplex DNA and are vital for the processes of replication, transcription, and recombination. This family may be more than one structural domain.
GST_C	Glutathione S-transferase, C-terminal domain. GST conjugates reduced glutathione to a variety of targets including S-crystallin from squid, the eukaryotic elongation factor 1-gamma, the HSP26 family of stress-related proteins and auxin-regulated proteins in plants. Stringent starvation proteins in Escherichia coli are also included in the alignment but are not known to have GST activity. The glutathione molecule binds in a cleft between N and C-terminal domains. The catalytically important residues are proposed to reside in the N-terminal domain. In plants, GSTs are encoded by a large gene family (48 GST genes in Arabidopsis) and can be divided into the phi, tau, theta, zeta, and lambda classes.
DRIM	Down-regulated in metastasis. These eukaryotic proteins include DRIM (Down-Regulated In Metastasis), which is differentially expressed in metastatic and non-metastatic human breast carcinoma cells. It is believed to be involved in processing of non-coding RNA.
Metallothio_7	Metallothionein family 7. The sequence making up family 7 of the metallothionein superfamily are found repeated in metallothionein proteins expressed by two Tetrahymena species. Metallothioneins are low molecular mass, cysteine-rich metal-binding proteins that are thought to be involved in the regulation of levels of trace metals, and detoxification of these metals when present in excess. Some of the metallothioneins found in this family (for example) are known to be induced by cadmium and are thought to be involved in the cellular sequestration of toxic metal ions. The high proportion of cysteine residues allows the metal ions to be bound by the formation of clusters of metal-thiolate complexes. Tetrahymena spp. metallothioneins differ from other eukaryotic metallothioneins mainly in the length of their sequences and in the cysteine-containing motifs they exhibit.
Ribophorin_II	Ribophorin II (RPN2). This family consists of several eukaryotic Ribophorin II (RPN2) proteins. The mammalian oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) is a protein complex that effects the cotranslational N-glycosylation of newly synthesised polypeptides, and is composed of at least four rough ER-specific membrane proteins: ribophorins I and II (RI and RII), OST48, and Dadl. The mechanism(s) by which the subunits of this complex are retained in the ER are not well understood.
Isochorismatase	Isochorismatase family. This family are hydrolase enzymes.
MIF4G_like	MIF4G like. Members of this family are involved in mediating U snRNA export from the nucleus. They adopt a highly helical structure, wherein the polypeptide chain forms a right-handed solenoid. At the tertiary level, the domain is composed of a superhelical arrangement of successive antiparallel pairs of helices.
Flavodoxin_2	Flavodoxin-like fold. This family consists of a domain with a flavodoxin-like fold. The family includes bacterial and eukaryotic NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone) EC:1.6.99.2. These enzymes catalyse the NAD(P)H-dependent two-electron reductions of quinones and protect cells against damage by free radicals and reactive oxygen species. This enzyme uses a FAD co-factor. The equation for this reaction is:- NAD(P)H + acceptor <=> NAD(P)(+) + reduced acceptor. This enzyme is also involved in the bioactivation of prodrugs used in chemotherapy. The family also includes acyl carrier protein phosphodiesterase EC:3.1.4.14. This enzyme converts holo-ACP to apo-ACP by hydrolytic cleavage of the phosphopantetheine residue from ACP. This family is related to pfam03358 and pfam00258.
Formyl_trans_N	Formyl transferase. This family includes the following members. Glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase catalyses the third step in de novo purine biosynthesis, the transfer of a formyl group to 5'-phosphoribosylglycinamide. Formyltetrahydrofolate deformylase produces formate from formyl- tetrahydrofolate. Methionyl-tRNA formyltransferase transfers a formyl group onto the amino terminus of the acyl moiety of the methionyl aminoacyl-tRNA. Inclusion of the following members is supported by PSI-blast. HOXX_BRAJA (P31907) contains a related domain of unknown function. PRTH_PORGI (P46071) contains a related domain of unknown function. Y09P_MYCTU (Q50721) contains a related domain of unknown function.
DUF455	Protein of unknown function (DUF455). 
GASA	Gibberellin regulated protein. This is the GASA gibberellin regulated cysteine rich protein family. The expression of these proteins is up-regulated by the plant hormone gibberellin, most of these proteins have some role in plant development. There are 12 cysteine residues conserved within the alignment giving the potential for these proteins to posses 6 disulphide bonds.
WD40	WD domain, G-beta repeat. 
DUF2143	Uncharacterized protein conserved in archaea (DUF2143). This domain, found in various hypothetical archaeal proteins, has no known function.
LSR	Lipolysis stimulated receptor (LSR). The lipolysis-stimulated receptor (LSR) is a lipoprotein receptor primarily expressed in the liver and activated by free fatty acids. It is thought to be involved in the clearance of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, and has been shown in mice to be critical for liver and embryonic development.
DS	Deoxyhypusine synthase. Eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF-5A) contains an unusual amino acid, hypusine [N epsilon-(4-aminobutyl-2-hydroxy)lysine]. The first step in the post-translational formation of hypusine is catalysed by the enzyme deoxyhypusine synthase (DS) EC:1.1.1.249. The modified version of eIF-5A, and DS, are required for eukaryotic cell proliferation.
GED	Dynamin GTPase effector domain. 
Pescadillo_N	Pescadillo N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminal region of Pescadillo. Pescadillo protein localises to distinct substructures of the interphase nucleus including nucleoli, the site of ribosome biogenesis. During mitosis pescadillo closely associates with the periphery of metaphase chromosomes and by late anaphase is associated with nucleolus-derived foci and prenucleolar bodies. Blastomeres in mouse embryos lacking pescadillo arrest at morula stages of development, the nucleoli fail to differentiate and accumulation of ribosomes is inhibited. It has been proposed that in mammalian cells pescadillo is essential for ribosome biogenesis and nucleologenesis and that disruption to its function results in cell cycle arrest. This family is often found in conjunction with a pfam00533 domain.
Herpes_US9	Alphaherpesvirus tegument protein US9. This family consists of several US9 and related proteins from the Alphaherpesviruses. The function of the US9 protein is unknown although in Bovine herpesvirus 5 Us9 is essential for the anterograde spread of the virus from the olfactory mucosa to the bulb.
Tfb4	Transcription factor Tfb4. 
SOH1	SOH1. The family consists of Saccharomyces cerevisiae SOH1 homologues. SOH1 is responsible for the repression of temperature sensitive growth of the HPR1 mutant and has been found to be a component of the RNA polymerase II transcription complex. SOH1 not only interacts with factors involved in DNA repair, but transcription as well. Thus, the SOH1 protein may serve to couple these two processes.
LRS4	Monopolin complex subunit LRS4. Monopolin is a protein complex, originally identified in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, that is required for the segregation of homologous centromeres to opposite poles of a dividing cell during meiosis I. The orthologous complex in Schizosaccharomyces pombe is not required for meiosis I chromosome segregation, but is proposed to play a similar physiological role in clamping microtubule binding sites. In S.cerevisiae this subunit is called LRS4, and in S. pombe it is known as Mde4.
7TM_GPCR_Srv	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srv. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Sru is a member of the Srg superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
SDA1	SDA1. This family consists of several SDA1 protein homologues. SDA1 is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein which is involved in the control of the actin cytoskeleton. The protein is essential for cell viability and is localised in the nucleus.
DUF354	Protein of unknown function (DUF354). Members of this family are around 350 amino acids in length. They are found in archaebacteria and have no known function.
VQ	VQ motif. This short motif is found in a variety of plant proteins. These proteins vary greatly in length and are mostly composed of low complexity regions. They all conserve a short motif FXhVQChTG, where X is any amino acid and h is a hydrophobic amino acid. The function of this motif is uncertain, however one protein in this family has been found to bind the SigA sigma factor. It would seem plausible that this motif is needed for this activity and that this whole family might be involved in modulating plastid sigma factors (Bateman A pers. obs.).
DUF766	Protein of unknown function (DUF766). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
TIP41	TIP41-like family. The TOR signalling pathway activates a cell-growth program in response to nutrients. TIP41 interacts with TAP42 and negatively regulates the TOR signaling pathway.
Arm	Armadillo/beta-catenin-like repeat. Approx. 40 amino acid repeat. Tandem repeats form super-helix of helices that is proposed to mediate interaction of beta-catenin with its ligands. CAUTION: This family does not contain all known armadillo repeats.
TACC	Transforming acidic coiled-coil-containing protein (TACC). This family contains the proteins TACC 1, 2 and 3 the genes for which are found concentrated in the centrosomes of eukaryotic and may play a conserved role in organising centrosomal microtubules. The human TACC proteins have been linked to cancer and TACC2 has been identified as a possible tumour suppressor (AZU-1). The functional homologue (Alp7) in Schizosaccharomyces pombe has been shown to be required for organisation of bipolar spindles.
DUF2075	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2075). This domain, found in various prokaryotic proteins (including putative ATP/GTP binding proteins), has no known function.
NmrA	NmrA-like family. NmrA is a negative transcriptional regulator involved in the post-translational modification of the transcription factor AreA. NmrA is part of a system controlling nitrogen metabolite repression in fungi. This family only contains a few sequences as iteration results in significant matches to other Rossmann fold families.
DUF881	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF881). This family consists of a series of hypothetical bacterial proteins. One of the family members YlxW from Bacillus subtilis is thought to be involved in cell division and sporulation.
Fringe	Fringe-like. The drosophila protein fringe (FNG) is a glucosaminyltransferase that controls the response of the Notch receptor to specific ligands. FNG is localised to the Golgi apparatus (not secreted as previously thought). Modification of Notch occurs through glycosylation by FNG. The xenopus homologue, lunatic fringe, has been implicated in a variety of functions.
Cys_Met_Meta_PP	Cys/Met metabolism PLP-dependent enzyme. This family includes enzymes involved in cysteine and methionine metabolism. The following are members: Cystathionine gamma-lyase, Cystathionine gamma-synthase, Cystathionine beta-lyase, Methionine gamma-lyase, OAH/OAS sulfhydrylase, O-succinylhomoserine sulfhydrylase All of these members participate is slightly different reactions. All these enzymes use PLP (pyridoxal-5'-phosphate) as a cofactor.
U-box	U-box domain. This domain is related to the Ring finger pfam00097 but lacks the zinc binding residues.
DUF2236	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2236). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
AgrB	Accessory gene regulator B. The arg locus consists of two transcripts: RNAII and RNAIII. RNAII encodes four genes (agrA, B, C, and D) whose gene products assemble a quorum sensing system. AgrB and AgrD are essential for the production of the autoinducing peptide which functions as a signal for quorum sensing. AgrB is a transmembrane protein.
zf-MIZ	MIZ/SP-RING zinc finger. This domain has SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) ligase activity and is involved in DNA repair and chromosome organisation.
CobT	Cobalamin biosynthesis protein CobT. This family consists of several bacterial cobalamin biosynthesis (CobT) proteins. CobT is involved in the transformation of precorrin-3 into cobyrinic acid.
DnaJ_CXXCXGXG	DnaJ central domain (4 repeats). The central cysteine-rich (CR) domain of DnaJ proteins contains four repeats of the motif CXXCXGXG where X is any amino acid. The isolated cysteine rich domain folds in zinc dependent fashion. Each set of two repeats binds one unit of zinc. Although this domain has been implicated in substrate binding, no evidence of specific interaction between the isolated DNAJ cysteine rich domain and various hydrophobic peptides has been found.
SecA_SW	SecA Wing and Scaffold domain. SecA protein binds to the plasma membrane where it interacts with proOmpA to support translocation of proOmpA through the membrane. SecA protein achieves this translocation, in association with SecY protein, in an ATP dependent manner. This family is composed of two C-terminal alpha helical subdomains: the wing and scaffold subdomains.
PsaN	Photosystem I reaction centre subunit N (PSAN or PSI-N). This family contains several Photosystem I reaction centre subunit N (PSI-N) proteins. The protein has no known function although it is localised in the thylakoid lumen. PSI-N is a small extrinsic subunit at the lumen side and is very likely involved in the docking of plastocyanin.
I_LWEQ	I/LWEQ domain. I/LWEQ domains bind to actin. It has been shown that the I/LWEQ domains from mouse talin and yeast Sla2p interact with F-actin. I/LWEQ domains can be placed into four major groups based on sequence similarity: (1) Metazoan talin; (2) Dictyostelium TalA/TalB and SLA110; (3) metazoan Hip1p; and (4) yeast Sla2p. The domain has four conserved blocks, the name of the domain is derived from the initial conserved amino acid of each of the four blocks.
DUF1783	Fungal protein of unknown function (DUF1783). This is a fungal family of uncharacterised proteins.
HRP1	THO complex subunit HPR1. The THO complex plays a role in coupling transcription elongation to mRNA export. It is composed of subunits THP2, HPR1, THO2 and MFT1.
CBS	CBS domain pair. CBS domains are small intracellular modules that pair together to form a stable globular domain. This family represents a pair of CBS domains, that has been termed a Bateman domain. CBS domains have been shown to bind ligands with an adenosyl group such as AMP, ATP and S-AdoMet. CBS domains are found attached to a wide range of other protein domains suggesting that CBS domains may play a regulatory role making proteins sensitive to adenosyl carrying ligands. The region containing the CBS domains in Cystathionine-beta synthase is involved in regulation by S-AdoMet. CBS domain pairs from AMPK bind AMP or ATP. The CBS domains from IMPDH and the chloride channel CLC2 bind ATP.
Translin	Translin family. Members of this family include Translin that interacts with DNA and forms a ring around the DNA. This family also includes Translin-associated protein X, which was found to interact with translin with yeast two-hybrid screen.
Ribosomal_S20p	Ribosomal protein S20. Bacterial ribosomal protein S20 interacts with 16S rRNA.
Hydrolase_3	haloacid dehalogenase-like hydrolase. This family contains haloacid dehalogenase-like hydrolase enzymes.
CYTH	CYTH domain. These sequences are functionally identified as members of the adenylate cyclase family, which catalyses the conversion of ATP to 3',5'-cyclic AMP and pyrophosphate. Six distinct non-homologous classes of AC have been identified. The structure of three classes of adenylyl cyclases have been solved.
Herpes_pp85	Herpesvirus phosphoprotein 85 (HHV6-7 U14/HCMV UL25). This family includes UL25 proteins from HCMV, as well as U14 proteins from HHV 6 and HHV7. These 85 kD phosphoproteins appear to act as structural antigens, but their precise function is otherwise unknown.
DivIC	Septum formation initiator. DivIC from B. subtilis is necessary for both vegetative and sporulation septum formation. These proteins are mainly composed of an amino terminal coiled-coil.
DRY_EERY	Alternative splicing regulator. This entry represents the conserved N-terminal region of SWAP (suppressor-of-white-apricot protein) proteins. This region contains two highly conserved motifs, viz: DRY and EERY, which appear to be the sites for alternative splicing of exons 2 and 3 of the SWAP mRNA. These proteins are thus thought to be involved in auto-regulation of pre-mRNA splicing. Most family members are associated with two Surp domains pfam01805 and an Arginine- serine-rich binding region towards the C-terminus.
zf-RanBP	Zn-finger in Ran binding protein and others. 
Trehalose_recp	Trehalose receptor. In Drosophila, taste is perceived by gustatory neurons located in sensilla distributed on several different appendages throughout the body of the animal. This family represents the taste receptor sensitive to trehalose.
DUF377	Domain of unknown function (DUF377). This family contains many hypothetical proteins, some of which are predicted to be glycosyl hydrolases. This family was noted to belong to the Beta fructosidase superfamily.
DUF706	Family of unknown function (DUF706). Family of uncharacterised eukaryotic function. Some members have a described putative function, but a common theme is not evident.
CwfJ_C_2	Protein similar to CwfJ C-terminus 2. This region is found in the N terminus of Schizosaccharomyces pombe protein CwfJ. CwfJ is part of the Cdc5p complex involved in mRNA splicing.
DUF1649	Protein of unknown function (DUF1649). This family is made up of sequences derived from hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
RdRP_1	RNA dependent RNA polymerase. 
DUF2220	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2220). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
VapD	Virulence-associated protein D (VapD). Family of bacterial proteins associated with virulence.
eIF2_C	Initiation factor eIF2 gamma, C terminal. Members of this family, which are found in the initiation factors eIF2 and EF-Tu, adopt a structure consisting of a beta barrel with Greek key topology. They are required for formation of the ternary complex with GTP and initiator tRNA.
MGDG_synth	Monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) synthase. This family represents a conserved region of approximately 180 residues within plant and bacterial monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) synthase (EC:2.4.1.46). In Arabidopsis, there are two types of MGDG synthase which differ in their N-terminal portion: type A and type B.
PLA1	Phospholipase A1. Phospholipase A1 is a bacterial outer membrane bound acyl hydrolase with a broad substrate specificity EC:3.1.1.32. It has been proposed that Ser164 is the active site for Escherichia coli Phospholipase A1.
Papilloma_E5	Papillomavirus E5. The E5 protein from papillomaviruses is about 80 amino acids long. The proteins are contain three regions that are predicted to be transmembrane alpha helices. The function of this protein is unknown.
PP_kinase	Polyphosphate kinase. Polyphosphate kinase (Ppk) catalyses the formation of polyphosphate from ATP, with chain lengths of up to a thousand or more orthophosphate molecules.
DnaB_C	DnaB-like helicase C terminal domain. The hexameric helicase DnaB unwinds the DNA duplex at the Escherichia coli chromosome replication fork. Although the mechanism by which DnaB both couples ATP hydrolysis to translocation along DNA and denatures the duplex is unknown, a change in the quaternary structure of the protein involving dimerisation of the N-terminal domain has been observed and may occur during the enzymatic cycle. This C-terminal domain contains an ATP-binding site and is therefore probably the site of ATP hydrolysis.
Mob_synth_C	Molybdenum Cofactor Synthesis C. This region contains two iron-sulphur (3Fe-4S) binding sites. Mutations in this region of human MOCS1A cause MOCOD (Molybdenum Co-Factor Deficiency) type A.
tRNA-synt_1c	tRNA synthetases class I (E and Q), catalytic domain. Other tRNA synthetase sub-families are too dissimilar to be included. This family includes only glutamyl and glutaminyl tRNA synthetases. In some organisms, a single glutamyl-tRNA synthetase aminoacylates both tRNA(Glu) and tRNA(Gln).
Glyco_hydro_63	Mannosyl oligosaccharide glucosidase. This is a family of eukaryotic enzymes belonging to glycosyl hydrolase family 63. They catalyse the specific cleavage of the non-reducing terminal glucose residue from Glc(3)Man(9)GlcNAc(2). Mannosyl oligosaccharide glucosidase EC:3.2.1.106 is the first enzyme in the N-linked oligosaccharide processing pathway.
RNase_H1_sml	Ribonuclease H1/H2 small subunit. This family represents the small subunit of the mammalian RNase H1 and RNase H2 in yeast, the activity of which was found to rise during DNA replication.
DUF1650	Protein of unknown function (DUF1650). Sequences found in this family are derived from hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. The region in question is approximately 280 residues long.
TBPIP	Tat binding protein 1(TBP-1)-interacting protein (TBPIP). This family consists of several eukaryotic TBP-1 interacting protein (TBPIP) sequences. TBP-1 has been demonstrated to interact with the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) viral protein Tat, then modulate the essential replication process of HIV. In addition, TBP-1 has been shown to be a component of the 26S proteasome, a basic multiprotein complex that degrades ubiquitinated proteins in an ATP-dependent fashion. Human TBPIP interacts with human TBP-1 then modulates the inhibitory action of human TBP-1 on HIV-Tat-mediated transactivation.
CBFB_NFYA	CCAAT-binding transcription factor (CBF-B/NF-YA) subunit B. 
HTH_11	HTH domain. This family includes helix-turn-helix domains in a wide variety of proteins.
DUF1446	Protein of unknown function (DUF1446). This family consists of several bacterial and plant proteins of around 400 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF654	Protein of unknown function, DUF654. This family includes a number of poorly characterised eukaryotic proteins.
Thymidylat_synt	Thymidylate synthase. 
WRC	WRC. The WRC domain, named after the conserved Trp-Arg-Cys motif, contains two distinctive features: a putative nuclear localisation signal and a zinc-finger motif (C3H). It is suggested that the WRC domain functions in DNA binding.
AMH_N	Anti-Mullerian hormone, N terminal region. Anti-Mullerian hormone, AMH is a signalling molecule involved in male and female sexual differentiation. Defects in synthesis or action of AMH cause persistent Mullerian duct syndrome (PMDS), a rare form of male pseudohermaphroditism. This family represents the N terminal part of the protein, which is not thought to be essential for activity. AMH contains a TGF-beta domain (pfam00019), at the C terminus.
DUF421	Protein of unknown function (DUF421). YDFR family
Mitofilin	Mitochondrial inner membrane protein. Mitofilin controls mitochondrial cristae morphology. Mitofilin is enriched in the narrow space between the inner boundary and the outer membranes, where it forms a homotypic interaction and assembles into a large multimeric protein complex. The first 78 amino acids contain a typical amino-terminal-cleavable mitochondrial presequence (residues 1-43) rich in positive-charged and hydroxylated residues and a membrane anchor domain (residues 47-66). In addition, it has three centrally located coiled coil domains (residues 200-240,280-310 and 400-420).
WCOR413	Cold acclimation protein WCOR413. This family consists of several WCOR413-like plant cold acclimation proteins.
THF_DHG_CYH	Tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/cyclohydrolase, catalytic domain. 
RGP	Reversibly glycosylated polypeptide. 
Adeno_PV	Adenovirus minor core protein PV. 
FlhE	Flagellar protein FlhE. This family consists of several Enterobacterial FlhE flagellar proteins. The exact function of this family is unknown.
DUF729	Protein of unknown function (DUF729). This family consists of several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
DUF1313	Protein of unknown function (DUF1313). This family consists of several hypothetical plant proteins of around 100 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
Nod_GRP	Nodule-specific GRP repeat. The region featured in this family is found repeated in a number of plant proteins, some of which are expressed specifically in nodules formed during symbiotic interactions with certain bacterial species. Some of these proteins are also termed glycine-rich proteins (GRPs), due to the presence of a glycine-rich C-terminal region in their structures. Bacterial infection is required for the induction of nodule-specific GRP genes, and it is thought that nodule-specific GRPs may play non-redundant roles required at specific stages of nodule development. Members of this group of proteins may be cytosolic, whereas others are thought to be membrane-associated.
DUF422	Protein of unknown function (DUF422). Predicted to be an integral membrane protein.
SapB_1	Saposin-like type B, region 1. 
ARS2	Arsenite-resistance protein 2. Arsenite is a carcinogenic compound which can act as a co-mutagen by inhibiting DNA repair. Arsenite-resistance protein 2 is thought to play a role in arsenite resistance.
EB1	EB1-like C-terminal motif. This motif is found at the C-terminus of proteins that are related to the EB1 protein. The EB1 proteins contain an N-terminal CH domain pfam00307. The human EB1 protein was originally discovered as a protein interacting with the C-terminus of the APC protein. This interaction is often disrupted in colon cancer, due to deletions affecting the APC C-terminus. Several EB1 orthologues are also included in this family. The interaction between EB1 and APC has been shown to have a potent synergistic effect on microtubule polymerisation. Neither of EB1 or APC alone has this effect. It is thought that EB1 targets APC to the + ends of microtubules, where APC promotes microtubule polymerisation. This process is regulated by APC phosphorylation by Cdc2, which disrupts APC-EB1 binding. Human EB1 protein can functionally substitute for the yeast EB1 homologue Mal3. In addition, Mal3 can substitute for human EB1 in promoting microtubule polymerisation with APC.
Zn_peptidase	Putative neutral zinc metallopeptidase. Members of this family have a predicted zinc binding motif characteristic of neutral zinc metallopeptidases (Prosite:PDOC00129).
zf-CCCH	Zinc finger C-x8-C-x5-C-x3-H type (and similar). 
COX15-CtaA	Cytochrome oxidase assembly protein. This is a family of integral membrane proteins. CtaA is required for cytochrome aa3 oxidase assembly in Bacillus subtilis. COX15 is required for cytochrome c oxidase assembly in yeast.
Birna_VP5	Birnavirus VP5 protein. Birnaviruses are ds RNA viruses. Non structural protein VP5 is found in RNA segment A. The function of this small viral protein is unknown. The proteins are about 150 amino acids long and contain several conserved histidines and cysteines that might form a zinc binding site (Bateman A pers. obs.).
Peptidase_M10	Matrixin. The members of this family are enzymes that cleave peptides. These proteases require zinc for catalysis.
Orn_Arg_deC_N	Pyridoxal-dependent decarboxylase, pyridoxal binding domain. These pyridoxal-dependent decarboxylases acting on ornithine, lysine, arginine and related substrates This domain has a TIM barrel fold.
Clathrin_lg_ch	Clathrin light chain. 
VKOR	Vitamin K epoxide reductase family. Vitamin K epoxide reductase (VKOR) recycles reduced vitamin K, which is used subsequently as a co-factor in the gamma-carboxylation of glutamic acid residues in blood coagulation enzymes. VKORC1 is a member of a large family of predicted enzymes that are present in vertebrates, Drosophila, plants, bacteria and archaea. Four cysteine residues and one residue, which is either serine or threonine, are identified as likely active-site residues. In some plant and bacterial homologues the VKORC1 homologous domain is fused with domains of the thioredoxin family of oxidoreductases.
PsbM	Photosystem II reaction centre M protein (PsbM). This family consists of several Photosystem II reaction centre M proteins (PsbM) from plants and cyanobacteria. During the photosynthetic light reactions in the thylakoid membranes of cyanobacteria, algae, and plants, photosystem II (PSII), a multi-subunit membrane protein complex, catalyses oxidation of water to molecular oxygen and reduction of plastoquinon.
Dabb	Stress responsive A/B Barrel Domain. The function of this family is unknown, but it is upregulated in response to salt stress in Populus balsamifera. It is also found at the C-terminus of an fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase from Hydrogenophilus thermoluteolus. A member from Arthrobacter nicotinovorans is found in the pA01 plasmid, which encodes genes for molybdopterin uptake and degradation of plant alkaloid nicotine. The structure of one has been solved and the domain forms an a/b barrel dimer. Although there is a clear duplication within the domain it is not obviously detectable in the sequence.
Gpi1	N-acetylglucosaminyl transferase component (Gpi1). Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) represents an important anchoring molecule for cell surface proteins.The first step in its synthesis is the transfer of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) from UDP-N-acetylglucosamine to phosphatidylinositol (PI). This chemically simple step is genetically complex because three or four genes are required in both yeast (GPI1, GPI2 and GPI3) and mammals (GPI1, PIG A, PIG H and PIG C), respectively.
Cytochrom_B_N	Cytochrome b(N-terminal)/b6/petB. 
Robl_LC7	Roadblock/LC7 domain. This family includes proteins that are about 100 amino acids long and have been shown to be related. Members of this family of proteins are associated with both flagellar outer arm dynein and Drosophila and rat brain cytoplasmic dynein. It is proposed that roadblock/LC7 family members may modulate specific dynein functions. This family also includes Golgi-associated MP1 adapter protein and MglB from Myxococcus xanthus, a protein involved in gliding motility. However the family also includes members from non-motile bacteria such as Streptomyces coelicolor, suggesting that the protein may play a structural or regulatory role.
VanZ	VanZ like family. This family contains several examples of the VanZ protein, but also contains examples of phosphotransbutyrylases.
XRCC4	DNA double-strand break repair and V(D)J recombination protein XRCC4. This family consists of several mammalian specific DNA double-strand break repair and V(D)J recombination protein XRCC4 sequences. In the non-homologous end joining pathway of DNA double-strand break repair, the ligation step is catalysed by a complex of XRCC4 and DNA ligase IV. It is thought that XRCC4 and ligase IV are essential for alignment-based gap filling, as well as for final ligation of the breaks.
Gemini_AL1	Geminivirus Rep catalytic domain. The AL1 proteins encodes the replication initiator protein (Rep) of geminiviruses, which is a replicon-specific initiator enzyme and is an essential component of the replisome. For geminivirus Rep protein, this N-terminal region is crucial for origin recognition and DNA cleavage and nucleotidyl transfer.
Nodulin_late	Late nodulin protein. This family consists of several plant specific late nodulin sequences which are homologous to the Pisum sativum (Garden pea) ENOD3 protein. ENOD3 is expressed in the late stages of root nodule formation and contains two pairs of cysteine residues toward the proteins C-terminus which may be involved in metal-binding.
DHDPS	Dihydrodipicolinate synthetase family. This family has a TIM barrel structure.
Herpes_gp2	Equine herpesvirus glycoprotein gp2. This family consists of a number of glycoprotein gp2 sequences from equine herpesviruses.
DUF662	Family of unknown function (DUF662). Family of hypothetical eukaryotic proteins.
Aph-1	Aph-1 protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic Aph-1 proteins.Gamma-secretase catalyses the intramembrane proteolysis of Notch, beta-amyloid precursor protein, and other substrates as part of a new signaling paradigm and as a key step in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is thought that the presenilin heterodimer comprises the catalytic site and that a highly glycosylated form of nicastrin associates with it. Aph-1 and Pen-2, two membrane proteins genetically linked to gamma-secretase, associate directly with presenilin and nicastrin in the active protease complex. Co-expression of all four proteins leads to marked increases in presenilin heterodimers, full glycosylation of nicastrin, and enhanced gamma-secretase activity.
DUF787	Borrelia burgdorferi protein of unknown function (DUF787). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins of unknown function from Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease spirochete).
TetR_N	Bacterial regulatory proteins, tetR family. 
Methyltransf_12	Methyltransferase domain. Members of this family are SAM dependent methyltransferases.
DUF1677	Protein of unknown function (DUF1677). The sequences found in this family are all derived from hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function. The region features a number of highly conserved cysteine residues.
DUF812	Protein of unknown function (DUF812). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
CPSase_L_D2	Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase L chain, ATP binding domain. Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase catalyses the ATP-dependent synthesis of carbamyl-phosphate from glutamine or ammonia and bicarbonate. This important enzyme initiates both the urea cycle and the biosynthesis of arginine and/or pyrimidines. The carbamoyl-phosphate synthase (CPS) enzyme in prokaryotes is a heterodimer of a small and large chain. The small chain promotes the hydrolysis of glutamine to ammonia, which is used by the large chain to synthesise carbamoyl phosphate. See pfam00988. The small chain has a GATase domain in the carboxyl terminus. See pfam00117. The ATP binding domain (this one) has an ATP-grasp fold.
tRNA-synt_1b	tRNA synthetases class I (W and Y). 
UvrC_HhH_N	UvrC Helix-hairpin-helix N-terminal. This domain is found in the C subunits of the bacterial and archaeal UvrABC system which catalyses nucleotide excision repair in a multi-step process. UvrC catalyses the first incision on the fourth or fifth phosphodiester bond 3' and on the eighth phosphodiester bond 5' from the damage that is to be excised. The domain described here is found to the N-terminus of a helix hairpin helix (pfam00633) motif and also co-occurs with the pfam01541 catalytic domain which is found at the N-terminus of the same proteins.
RRF	Ribosome recycling factor. The ribosome recycling factor (RRF / ribosome release factor) dissociates the ribosome from the mRNA after termination of translation, and is essential bacterial growth. Thus ribosomes are "recycled" and ready for another round of protein synthesis.
Alpha-L-AF_C	Alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 200 residues) of bacterial and eukaryotic alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase (EC:3.2.1.55). This catalyses the hydrolysis of nonreducing terminal alpha-L-arabinofuranosidic linkages in L-arabinose-containing polysaccharides.
DAP_epimerase	Diaminopimelate epimerase. Diaminopimelate epimerase contains two domains of the same alpha/beta fold, both contained in this family.
zf-MYND	MYND finger. 
Glyco_hydro_1	Glycosyl hydrolase family 1. 
DUF819	Protein of unknown function (DUF819). This family contains proteins of unknown function from archaeal, bacterial and plant species.
Gpi16	Gpi16 subunit, GPI transamidase component. GPI (glycosyl phosphatidyl inositol) transamidase is a multi-protein complex. Gpi16, Gpi8 and Gaa1 for a sub-complex of the GPI transamidase. GPI transamidase that adds glycosylphosphatidylinositols (GPIs) to newly synthesised proteins. Gpi16 is an essential N-glycosylated transmembrane glycoprotein. Gpi16 is largely found on the lumenal side of the ER. It has a single C-terminal transmembrane domain and a small C-terminal, cytosolic extension with an ER retrieval motif.
SSIII	Starch synthase III. This family represents a conserved region approximately 160 residues long that is repeated multiple times in plant starch synthase III (EC:2.4.1.21). Starch synthases extend alpha-1,4 glucan chains by catalysing the transfer of the glucosyl moiety of ADP-Glc to the non-reducing end of a pre-existing alpha-1,4 glucan. SS-III is thought to be primarily involved in the synthesis of amylopectin rather than amylose.
DUF298	Domain of unknown function (DUF298). Members of this family contain a basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper motif. This domain is implicated in some aspect of neddylation of the cullin 3 family and has a possible role in the regulation of the protein modifier Nedd8 E3 ligase. Neddylation is the process by which the C-terminal glycine of the ubiquitin-like protein Nedd8 is covalently linked to lysine residues in a protein through an isopeptide bond.
DUF687	Protein of unknown function (DUF687). This family contains several uncharacterised Chlamydia proteins.
Herpes_UL34	Herpesvirus UL34-like protein. This family includes the UL34 protein from herpesviruses. UL34 gene product is a membrane protein exclusively phosphorylated by the U(S)3 protein kinase. This protein forms a complex with pfam02718.
Orbi_VP5	Orbivirus outer capsid protein VP5. cryoelectron microscopy indicates that VP5 is a trimer implying that there are 360 copies of VP5 per virion.
DUF278	DUF278. This is a family of Caenorhabditis elegans proteins.
PARP_reg	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, regulatory domain. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase catalyses the covalent attachment of ADP-ribose units from NAD+ to itself and to a limited number of other DNA binding proteins, which decreases their affinity for DNA. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase is a regulatory component induced by DNA damage. The carboxyl-terminal region is the most highly conserved region of the protein. Experiments have shown that a carboxyl 40 kDa fragment is still catalytically active.
Rft-1	Rft protein. 
DUF2457	Protein of unknown function (DUF2457). This is a family of uncharacterised proteins.
DREPP	DREPP plasma membrane polypeptide. This family contains several plant plasma membrane proteins termed DREPPs as they are developmentally regulated plasma membrane polypeptides.
DUF29	Domain of unknown function DUF29. This family consists of various hypothetical proteins from cyanobacteria, none of which are functionally described. The aligned region is approximately 120-140 amino acids long corresponding to almost the entire length of the proteins in the family.
CSD	'Cold-shock' DNA-binding domain. 
Init_tRNA_PT	Initiator tRNA phosphoribosyl transferase. This enzyme (EC:2.4.2.-) modifies exclusively the initiator tRNA in position 64 using 5'-phosphoribosyl-1'-pyrophosphate as the modification donor. As the initiator tRNA participates both in the initiation and elongation of translation, the 2'-O-ribosyl phosphate modification discriminates the initiator tRNAs from the elongator tRNAs.
Vir_act_alpha_C	Virulence activator alpha C-term. This structure is homo-dimeric, and the domain here is the C-terminal half of the structure, often associated with PadR upstream, (pfam03551), which is a transcriptional regulator.
SelR	SelR domain. Methionine sulfoxide reduction is an important process, by which cells regulate biological processes and cope with oxidative stress. MsrA, a protein involved in the reduction of methionine sulfoxides in proteins, has been known for four decades and has been extensively characterised with respect to structure and function. However, recent studies revealed that MsrA is only specific for methionine-S-sulfoxides. Because oxidised methionines occur in a mixture of R and S isomers in vivo, it was unclear how stereo-specific MsrA could be responsible for the reduction of all protein methionine sulfoxides. It appears that a second methionine sulfoxide reductase, SelR, evolved that is specific for methionine-R-sulfoxides, the activity that is different but complementary to that of MsrA. Thus, these proteins, working together, could reduce both stereoisomers of methionine sulfoxide. This domain is found both in SelR proteins and fused with the peptide methionine sulfoxide reductase enzymatic domain pfam01625. The domain has two conserved cysteine and histidines. The domain binds both selenium and zinc. The final cysteine is found to be replaced by the rare amino acid selenocysteine in some members of the family. This family has methionine-R-sulfoxide reductase activity.
RPA_C	Replication protein A C terminal. This domain corresponds to the C terminal of the single stranded DNA binding protein RPA (replication protein A). RPA is involved in many DNA metabolic pathways including DNA replication, DNA repair, recombination, cell cycle and DNA damage checkpoints.
Mis6	Mis6. Mis6 is an essential centromere connector protein acting during G1-S phase of the cell cycle. Mis6 is thought to be required for recruiting CENP-A, the centromere- specific histone H3 variant, an important event for centromere function and chromosome segregation during mitosis.
DUF399	Protein of unknown function, DUF399. No function is known for any member of this family.
MIT	MIT (microtubule interacting and transport) domain. The MIT domain forms an asymmetric three-helix bundle and binds ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complexes required for transport) substrates.
Na_Ca_ex	Sodium/calcium exchanger protein. This is a family of sodium/calcium exchanger integral membrane proteins. This family covers the integral membrane regions of the proteins. Sodium/calcium exchangers regulate intracellular Ca2+ concentrations in many cells; cardiac myocytes, epithelial cells, neurons retinal rod photoreceptors and smooth muscle cells. Ca2+ is moved into or out of the cytosol depending on Na+ concentration. In humans and rats there are 3 isoforms; NCX1 NCX2 and NCX3.
Globin	Globin. 
GHMP_kinases_N	GHMP kinases N terminal domain. This family includes homoserine kinases, galactokinases and mevalonate kinases.
ATP-synt_B	ATP synthase B/B' CF(0). Part of the CF(0) (base unit) of the ATP synthase. The base unit is thought to translocate protons through membrane (inner membrane in mitochondria, thylakoid membrane in plants, cytoplasmic membrane in bacteria). The B subunits are thought to interact with the stalk of the CF(1) subunits. This domain should not be confused with the ab CF(1) proteins (in the head of the ATP synthase) which are found in pfam00006
Caa3_CtaG	Cytochrome c oxidase caa3 assembly factor (Caa3_CtaG). Members of this family are the CtaG protein required for assembly of active cytochrome c oxidase of the caa3 type, as found in Bacillus subtilis.
CR6_interact	Growth arrest and DNA-damage-inducible proteins-interacting protein 1. Members of this family of proteins act as negative regulators of G1 to S cell cycle phase progression by inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinases. Inhibitory effects are additive with GADD45 proteins but occur also in the absence of GADD45 proteins. Furthermore, they act as a repressor of the orphan nuclear receptor NR4A1 by inhibiting AB domain-mediated transcriptional activity.
Thiolase_C	Thiolase, C-terminal domain. Thiolase is reported to be structurally related to beta-ketoacyl synthase (pfam00109), and also chalcone synthase.
AdoMetDC_leader	S-adenosyl-l-methionine decarboxylase leader peptide. This family consists of the S-adenosyl-l-methionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC) leader peptides. AdoMetDC is a key regulatory enzymes in the biosynthesis of polyamines. All expressed plant AdoMetDC mRNA 5' leader sequences contain a highly conserved pair of overlapping upstream ORFs (uORFs) that overlap by one base. Sequences of the small uORFs are highly conserved between monocot, dicot and gymnosperm AdoMetDC mRNA species, suggesting a translational regulatory mechanism.
Poxvirus_B22R	Poxvirus B22R protein. 
Peroxidase_2	Peroxidase, family 2. The peroxidases in this family do not have similarity to other peroxidases.
CxxC_CxxC_SSSS	Putative regulatory protein (CxxC_CxxC_SSSS). This entry represents a region of about 41 amino acids found in a number of small proteins in a wide range of bacteria. The region usually begins with the initiator Met and contains two CxxC motifs separated by 17 amino acids. One protein in this entry has been noted as a putative regulatory protein, designated FmdB. Most proteins in this entry have a C-terminal region containing highly degenerate sequence.
LRR_1	Leucine Rich Repeat. CAUTION: This Pfam may not find all Leucine Rich Repeats in a protein. Leucine Rich Repeats are short sequence motifs present in a number of proteins with diverse functions and cellular locations. These repeats are usually involved in protein-protein interactions. Each Leucine Rich Repeat is composed of a beta-alpha unit. These units form elongated non-globular structures. Leucine Rich Repeats are often flanked by cysteine rich domains.
APC10	Anaphase-promoting complex, subunit 10 (APC10). 
GidB	Glucose inhibited division protein. This is a family of bacterial Glucose inhibited division proteins these are probably involved in the regulation of cell devision.
DUF482	Protein of unknown function, DUF482. This family contains several proteins of uncharacterised function.
ORC6	Origin recognition complex subunit 6 (ORC6). This family consists of several eukaryotic origin recognition complex subunit 6 (ORC6) proteins. Despite differences in their structure and sequences among eukaryotic replicators, ORC is a conserved feature of replication initiation in all eukaryotes. ORC-related genes have been identified in organisms ranging from S. pombe to plants to humans. All DNA replication initiation is driven by a single conserved eukaryotic initiator complex termed he origin recognition complex (ORC). The ORC is a six protein complex.
Raffinose_syn	Raffinose synthase or seed inhibition protein Sip1. This family consists of several raffinose synthase proteins, also known as seed imbibition (Sip1) proteins. Raffinose (O-alpha- D-galactopyranosyl- (1-->6)- O-alpha- D-glucopyranosyl-(1<-->2)- O-beta- D-fructofuranoside) is a widespread oligosaccharide in plant seeds and other tissues. Raffinose synthase (EC 2.4.1.82) is the key enzyme that channels sucrose into the raffinose oligosaccharide pathway.
Proteasome	Proteasome A-type and B-type. 
Ribosomal_S30	Ribosomal protein S30. 
SRP14	Signal recognition particle 14kD protein. The signal recognition particle (SRP) is a multimeric protein involved in targeting secretory proteins to the rough endoplasmic reticulum membrane. SRP14 and SRP9 form a complex essential for SRP RNA binding.
Det1	De-etiolated protein 1 Det1. This is the C-terminal conserved 400 residues of Det1 proteins of approximately 550 amino acids. Det1 (de-etiolated-1) is an essential negative regulator of plant light responses, and it is a component of the Arabidopsis CDD complex containing DDB1 and COP10 ubiquitin E2 variant. Mammalian Det1 forms stable DDD-E2 complexes, consisting of DDB1, DDA1 (DET1, DDB1 Associated 1), and a member of the UBE2E group of canonical ubiquitin conjugating enzymes and modulates Cul4A function.
DUF879	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF879). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
PPDK_N	Pyruvate phosphate dikinase, PEP/pyruvate binding domain. This enzyme catalyses the reversible conversion of ATP to AMP, pyrophosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP).
Phosphorylase	Carbohydrate phosphorylase. The members of this family catalyse the formation of glucose 1-phosphate from one of the following polyglucoses; glycogen, starch, glucan or maltodextrin.
RNaseH_C	T4 RNase H, C terminal. Members of this family are found in T4 RNaseH ribonuclease, and adopt a SAM domain-like fold, consisting of a bundle of four/five helices. These residues may have a role in providing a docking site for other proteins or enzymes in the replication fork.
GATase_3	CobB/CobQ-like glutamine amidotransferase domain. 
UPF0121	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0121). Uncharacterised integral membrane protein family.
ATP_synt_H	ATP synthase subunit H. ATP synthase subunit H is an extremely hydrophobic of approximately 9 kDa. This subunit may be required for assembly of vacuolar ATPase.
Serglycin	Serglycin. Serglycin is the most prevalent proteoglycan produced in haemopoietic cells. Serglycin is a proteinase resistant secretory granule proteoglycan.
Cation_efflux	Cation efflux family. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins, that are found to increase tolerance to divalent metal ions such as cadmium, zinc, and cobalt. These proteins are thought to be efflux pumps that remove these ions from cells.
DUF753	Protein of unknown function (DUF753). This family contains sequences with are repeated in several uncharacterised proteins from Drosophila melanogaster.
ORMDL	ORMDL family. Evidence form suggests that ORMDLs are involved in protein folding in the ER.
PRTP	Herpesvirus processing and transport protein. The members of this family are associate with capsid intermediates during packaging of the virus.
Prp19	Prp19/Pso4-like. This regions is found specifically in PRP19-like protein. The region represented by this family covers the sequence implicated in self-interaction and a coiled-coiled motif. PRP19-like proteins form an oligomer that is necessary for spliceosome assembly.
Strumpellin	Hereditary spastic paraplegia protein strumpellin. This is a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans, in which two closely situated point mutations in the human protein lead to the condition of hereditary spastic paraplegia. Strumpellin contains one known domain called a spectrin repeat that consists of three alpha-helices of a characteristic length wrapped in a left-handed coiled coil. The spectrin proteins have multiple copies of this repeat, which can then form multimers in the cell. Spectrin associates with the cell membrane via spectrin repeats in the ankyrin protein. The spectrin repeat is a structural platform for cytoskeletal protein assemblies.
5_3_exonuc_N	5'-3' exonuclease, N-terminal resolvase-like domain. 
Sec3	Exocyst complex component Sec3. This entry is the conserved middle and C-terminus of the Sec3 protein. Sec3 binds to the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain of GLYT1 (glycine transporter protein 1). Sec3 is the exocyst component that is closest to the plasma membrane docking site and it serves as a spatial landmark in the plasma membrane for incoming secretory vesicles. Sec3 is recruited to the sites of polarised membrane growth through its interaction with Rho1p, a small GTP-binding protein.
UPF0561	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0561. This family of proteins has no known function.
Mer2	Mer2. Mer2 (Rec107) forms part of a complex that is required for meiotic double strand DNA break formation. Mer2 increases in abundance and is phosphorylated during the prophase phase of cell division. Blocking double strand break formation results in delayed dephosphorylation and dissociation of Mer2 from the chromosome.
Ribosomal_L32e	Ribosomal protein L32. This family includes ribosomal protein L32 from eukaryotes and archaebacteria.
CstA	Carbon starvation protein CstA. This family consists of Carbon starvation protein CstA a predicted membrane protein. It has been suggested that CstA is involved in peptide utilisation.
GCV_T	Aminomethyltransferase folate-binding domain. This is a family of glycine cleavage T-proteins, part of the glycine cleavage multienzyme complex (GCV) found in bacteria and the mitochondria of eukaryotes. GCV catalyses the catabolism of glycine in eukaryotes. The T-protein is an aminomethyl transferase.
DUF2509	Protein of unknown function (DUF2509). This family is conserved in Proteobacteria. The function is not known but many of the members are annotated as protein YgdB.
WAPL	Wings apart-like protein. This family contains sequences expressed in eukaryotic organisms bearing high similarity to the WAPL conserved region of D. melanogaster wings apart-like protein. This protein is involved in the regulation of heterochromatin structure. hWAPL, the human homolog, is found to play a role in the development of cervical carcinogenesis, and is thought to have similar functions to Drosophila wapl protein. Malfunction of the hWAPL pathway is thought to activate an apoptotic pathway that consequently leads to cell death.
TFIIF_alpha	Transcription initiation factor IIF, alpha subunit (TFIIF-alpha). Transcription initiation factor IIF, alpha subunit (TFIIF-alpha) or RNA polymerase II-associating protein 74 (RAP74) is the large subunit of transcription factor IIF (TFIIF), which is essential for accurate initiation and stimulates elongation by RNA polymerase II.
TPK_catalytic	Thiamin pyrophosphokinase, catalytic domain. Family of thiamin pyrophosphokinase (EC:2.7.6.2). Thiamin pyrophosphokinase (TPK) catalyses the transfer of a pyrophosphate group from ATP to vitamin B1 (thiamin) to form the coenzyme thiamin pyrophosphate (TPP). Thus, TPK is important for the formation of a coenzyme required for central metabolic functions. The structure of thiamin pyrophosphokinase suggest that the enzyme may operate by a mechanism of pyrophosphoryl transfer similar to those described for pyrophosphokinases functioning in nucleotide biosynthesis.
Transp_cyt_pur	Permease for cytosine/purines, uracil, thiamine, allantoin. 
Hist_deacetyl	Histone deacetylase domain. Histones can be reversibly acetylated on several lysine residues. Regulation of transcription is caused in part by this mechanism. Histone deacetylases catalyse the removal of the acetyl group. Histone deacetylases are related to other proteins.
DUF1279	Protein of unknown function (DUF1279). This family represents the C-terminus (approx. 120 residues) of a number of eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
DUF2427	Domain of unknown function (DUF2427). This is the N-terminal region of a family of proteins conserved in fungi. Several members are annotated as being Ftp1 but this could not be confirmed. The function is not known.
DIRP	DIRP. DIRP (Domain in Rb-related Pathway) is postulated to be involved in the Rb-related pathway, which is encoded by multiple eukaryotic genomes and is present in proteins including lin-9 of Caenorhabditis elegans, aly of fruit fly and mustard weed. Studies of lin-9 and aly of fruit fly proteins containing DIRP suggest that this domain might be involved in development. Aly, lin-9, act in parallel to, or downstream of, activation of MAPK by the RTK-Ras signalling pathway.
Nic96	Nup93/Nic96. Nup93/Nic96 is a component of the nuclear pore complex. It is required for the correct assembly of the nuclear pore complex. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Nic96 has been shown to be involved in the distribution and cellular concentration of the GTPase Gsp1. The structure of Nic96 has revealed a mostly alpha helical structure.
Ribosomal_S18	Ribosomal protein S18. 
Ribosomal_S5_C	Ribosomal protein S5, C-terminal domain. 
RPAP1_N	RPAP1-like, N-terminal. Inhibition of RPAP1 synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae results in changes in global gene expression that are similar to those caused by the loss of the RNAPII subunit Rpb11. This entry represents the N-terminal region of RPAP-1 that is conserved from yeast to humans.
Dehydrin	Dehydrin. 
Ribosomal_S28e	Ribosomal protein S28e. 
IBR	IBR domain. The IBR (In Between Ring fingers) domain is often found to occur between pairs of ring fingers (pfam00097). This domain has also been called the C6HC domain and DRIL (for double RING finger linked) domain. Proteins that contain two Ring fingers and an IBR domain (these proteins are also termed RBR family proteins) are thought to exist in all eukaryotic organisms. RBR family members play roles in protein quality control and can indirectly regulate transcription. Evidence suggests that RBR proteins are often parts of cullin-containing ubiquitin ligase complexes. The ubiquitin ligase Parkin is an RBR family protein whose mutations are involved in forms of familial Parkinson's disease.
GalP_UDP_tr_C	Galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase, C-terminal domain. SCOP reports fold duplication with N-terminal domain. Both involved in Zn and Fe binding.
FAD_syn	FAD synthetase. This family corresponds to the N terminal domain of the bifunctional enzyme riboflavin kinase / FAD synthetase. These enzymes have both ATP:riboflavin 5'-phospho transferase and ATP:FMN-adenylyltransferase activity. They catalyse the 5'-phosphorylation of riboflavin to FMN and the adenylylation of FMN to FAD. This domain is thought to have the flavin mononucleotide (FMN) adenylyltransferase activity.
TAP35_44	Tapetum specific protein TAP35/TAP44. This family consists of several plant tapetum specific proteins. Members of this family are found in Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus and Sinapis alba. Members of this family may be involved in sporopollenin formation and/or deposition.
CAP160	CAP160 repeat. This region featured in this family is repeated in spinach cold acclimation protein CAP160 CAP160 is induced during periods of drought stress; its precise function is unknown but it has been implicated in the stabilisation of membranes, cytoskeletal elements, and ribosomes. By acting as a compatible solute, it may reduce the toxic effects of cellular solutes that accumulate at high concentration during dehydration; it may also function as an enzyme that produces such a solute. Other members of this family are also induced by water stress, abscisic acid, and/or low temperature, such as desiccation-responsive protein 29B and CDet11-24 protein.
UCR_hinge	Ubiquinol-cytochrome C reductase hinge protein. The ubiquinol-cytochrome C reductase complex (cytochrome bc1 complex) is a respiratory multienzyme complex. This Pfam family represents the 'hinge' protein of the complex which is thought to mediate formation of the cytochrome c1 and cytochrome c complex.
DXP_redisom_C	1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase C-terminal. This domain is found to the C-terminus of pfam02670 domains in bacterial and plant 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerases which catalyse the formation of 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate from 1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate in the presence of NADPH.
Rhomboid	Rhomboid family. This family contains integral membrane proteins that are related to Drosophila rhomboid protein. Members of this family are found in bacteria and eukaryotes. Rhomboid promotes the cleavage of the membrane-anchored TGF-alpha-like growth factor Spitz, allowing it to activate the Drosophila EGF receptor. Analysis has shown that Rhomboid-1 is an intramembrane serine protease (EC:3.4.21.105). Parasite-encoded rhomboid enzymes are also important for invasion of host cells by Toxoplasma and the malaria parasite.
Ribonuc_2-5A	Ribonuclease 2-5A. This domain is a endoribonuclease. Specifically it cleaves an intron from Hac1 mRNA in humans, which causes it to be much more efficiently translated.
FA_hydroxylase	Fatty acid hydroxylase superfamily. This superfamily includes fatty acid and carotene hydroxylases and sterol desaturases. Beta-carotene hydroxylase is involved in zeaxanthin synthesis by hydroxylating beta-carotene, but the enzyme may be involved in other pathways. This family includes C-5 sterol desaturase and C-4 sterol methyl oxidase. Members of this family are involved in cholesterol biosynthesis and biosynthesis a plant cuticular wax. These enzymes contain two copies of a HXHH motif. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins.
Herpes_UL87	Herpesvirus UL87 family. Members of this family are functionally uncharacterised. This family groups together EBV BcRF1, HSV-6 U58, HVS-1 24 and HCMV UL87. The proteins range from 575 to 950 amino acids in length.
Methyltrans_SAM	S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methyltransferase. Members of this family are S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methyltransferases from gamma-proteobacterial species. The diversity in the roles of methylation is matched by the almost bewildering number of methyltransferase enzymes that catalyse the methylation reaction. Although several classes of methyltransferase enzymes are known, the great majority of methylation reactions are catalysed by the S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methyltransferases.
DUF846	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF846). This family consists of several of unknown function from a variety of eukaryotic organisms.
Trypan_PARP	Procyclic acidic repetitive protein (PARP). This family consists of several Trypanosoma brucei procyclic acidic repetitive protein (PARP) like sequences. The procyclic acidic repetitive protein (parp) genes of Trypanosoma brucei encode a small family of abundant surface proteins whose expression is restricted to the procyclic form of the parasite. They are found at two unlinked loci, parpA and parpB; transcription of both loci is developmentally regulated.
GTP_EFTU_D2	Elongation factor Tu domain 2. Elongation factor Tu consists of three structural domains, this is the second domain. This domain adopts a beta barrel structure. This the second domain is involved in binding to charged tRNA. This domain is also found in other proteins such as elongation factor G and translation initiation factor IF-2. This domain is structurally related to pfam03143, and in fact has weak sequence matches to this domain.
LOH1CR12	Tumour suppressor protein. This is a region of 130 amino acids that is the most conserved region of hypothetical proteins involved in loss of heterozygosity and thus tumour suppression. The exact function is not known.
Pur_DNA_glyco	Methylpurine-DNA glycosylase (MPG). Methylpurine-DNA glycosylase is a base excision-repair protein. It is responsible for the hydrolysis of the deoxyribose N-glycosidic bond, excising 3-methyladenine and 3-methylguanine from damaged DNA.
ACT	ACT domain. This family of domains generally have a regulatory role. ACT domains are linked to a wide range of metabolic enzymes that are regulated by amino acid concentration. Pairs of ACT domains bind specifically to a particular amino acid leading to regulation of the linked enzyme. The ACT domain is found in: D-3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase EC:1.1.1.95, which is inhibited by serine. Aspartokinase EC:2.7.2.4, which is regulated by lysine. Acetolactate synthase small regulatory subunit, which is inhibited by valine. Phenylalanine-4-hydroxylase EC:1.14.16.1, which is regulated by phenylalanine. Prephenate dehydrogenase EC:4.2.1.51. formyltetrahydrofolate deformylase EC:3.5.1.10, which is activated by methionine and inhibited by glycine. GTP pyrophosphokinase EC:2.7.6.5.
MMR_HSR1	GTPase of unknown function. 
TCTP	Translationally controlled tumour protein. 
Jnk-SapK_ap_N	JNK_SAPK-associated protein-1. This is the N-terminal 200 residues of a set of proteins conserved from yeasts to humans. Most of the proteins in this entry have an RhoGEF pfam00621 domain at their C-terminal end.
tRNA_deacylase	D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylase. Several aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases have the ability to transfer the D-isomer of their amino acid onto their cognate tRNA. D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylases hydrolyse the ester bond between the polynucleotide and the D-amino acid, thereby preventing the accumulation of such mis-acylated and metabolically inactive tRNA molecules.
Bac_DNA_binding	Bacterial DNA-binding protein. 
S4	S4 domain. The S4 domain is a small domain consisting of 60-65 amino acid residues that was detected in the bacterial ribosomal protein S4, eukaryotic ribosomal S9, two families of pseudouridine synthases, a novel family of predicted RNA methylases, a yeast protein containing a pseudouridine synthetase and a deaminase domain, bacterial tyrosyl-tRNA synthetases, and a number of uncharacterized, small proteins that may be involved in translation regulation. The S4 domain probably mediates binding to RNA.
DUF1777	Protein of unknown function (DUF1777). This is a family of eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. Some of the proteins in this family are putative nucleic acid binding proteins.
DUF393	Protein of unknown function, DUF393. Members of this family have two highly conserved cysteine residues near their N-terminus. The function of these proteins is unknown.
RNA_pol_Rpb1_2	RNA polymerase Rpb1, domain 2. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain, domain 2, contains the active site. The invariant motif -NADFDGD- binds the active site magnesium ion.
Nucleoporin	Non-repetitive/WGA-negative nucleoporin. This is a family of nucleoporin proteins. Nucleoporins are the main components of the nuclear pore complex in eukaryotic cells, and mediate bidirectional nucleocytoplasmic transport, especially of mRNA and proteins. Two nucleoporin classes are known: one is characterised by the FG repeat pfam03093; the other is represented by this family, and lacks any repeats.
Keratin_B2	Keratin, high sulfur B2 protein. High sulfur proteins are cysteine-rich proteins synthesised during the differentiation of hair matrix cells, and form hair fibres in association with hair keratin intermediate filaments. This family has been divided up into four regions, with the second region containing 8 copies of a short repeat. This family is also known as B2 or KAP1.
RMMBL	RNA-metabolising metallo-beta-lactamase. The metallo-beta-lactamase fold contains five sequence motifs. The first four motifs are found in pfam00753 and are common to all metallo-beta-lactamases. The fifth motif appears to be specific to function. This entry represents the fifth motif from metallo-beta-lactamases involved in RNA metabolism.
Siva	Cd27 binding protein (Siva). Siva binds to the CD27 cytoplasmic tail. It has a DD homology region, a box-B-like ring finger, and a zinc finger-like domain. Overexpression of Siva in various cell lines induces apoptosis, suggesting an important role for Siva in the CD27-transduced apoptotic pathway. Siva-1 binds to and inhibits BCL-X(L)-mediated protection against UV radiation-induced apoptosis. Indeed, the unique amphipathic helical region (SAH) present in Siva-1 is required for its binding to BCL-X(L) and sensitising cells to UV radiation. Natural complexes of Siva-1/BCL-X(L) are detected in HUT78 and murine thymocyte, suggesting a potential role for Siva-1 in regulating T cell homeostasis. This family contains both Siva-1 and the shorter Siva-2 lacking the sequence coded by exon 2. It has been suggested that Siva-2 could regulate the function of Siva-1.
Cw-hydrolase	Cell wall-associated hydrolase. Members of this family are confined largely to bacterial spp. Most members are annotated as being cell-wall-associated hydrolases but this could not be confirmed.
PPK2	Polyphosphate kinase 2. This presumed domain is found in one or two copies per protein. The domain is about 230 amino acids in length and has polyphosphate kinase activity.
AHS1	Allophanate hydrolase subunit 1. This family is the first subunit of allophanate hydrolase.
zf-CSL	CSL zinc finger. This is a zinc binding motif which contains four cysteine residues which chelate zinc. This domain is often found associated with a pfam00226 domain. This domain is named after the conserved motif of the final cysteine.
HPPK	7,8-dihydro-6-hydroxymethylpterin-pyrophosphokinase (HPPK). 
M-inducer_phosp	M-phase inducer phosphatase. This family represents a region within eukaryotic M-phase inducer phosphatases (EC:3.1.3.48), which also contain the pfam00581 domain. These proteins are involved in the control of mitosis.
Ribosomal_L15	Ribosomal protein L15 amino terminal region. This family is always associated with pfam00256. This family is diagnostic of ribosomal L15 proteins.
CHDCT2	CHDCT2 (NUC038) domain. The CHDCT2 C-terminal domain is found in PHD/RING finger and chromo domain-associated CHD-like helicases.
Adenylate_cycl	Adenylate cyclase, class-I. 
SMC_N	RecF/RecN/SMC N terminal domain. This domain is found at the N terminus of SMC proteins. The SMC (structural maintenance of chromosomes) superfamily proteins have ATP-binding domains at the N- and C-termini, and two extended coiled-coil domains separated by a hinge in the middle. The eukaryotic SMC proteins form two kind of heterodimers: the SMC1/SMC3 and the SMC2/SMC4 types. These heterodimers constitute an essential part of higher order complexes, which are involved in chromatin and DNA dynamics. This family also includes the RecF and RecN proteins that are involved in DNA metabolism and recombination.
Mlo	Mlo family. A family of plant integral membrane proteins, first discovered in barley. Mutants lacking wild-type Mlo proteins show broad spectrum resistance to the powdery mildew fungus, and dysregulated cell death control, with spontaneous cell death in response to developmental or abiotic stimuli. Thus wild-type Mlo proteins are thought to be inhibitors of cell death whose deficiency lowers the threshold required to trigger the cascade of events that result in plant cell death. Mlo proteins are localised in the plasma membrane and possess seven transmembrane regions; thus the Mlo family is the only major higher plant family to possess 7 transmembrane domains. It has been suggested that Mlo proteins function as G-protein coupled receptors in plants; however the molecular and biological functions of Mlo proteins remain to be fully determined.
Peptidase_C25	Peptidase family C25. 
MASE1	MASE1. Predicted integral membrane sensory domain found in histidine kinases, diguanylate cyclases and other bacterial signaling proteins. This entry also includes members of the 8 transmembrane UhpB type (8TMR-UT) domain family.
Cyclin_C	Cyclin, C-terminal domain. Cyclins regulate cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs). Human UDG2 is a Uracil-DNA glycosylase that is related to other cyclins. Cyclins contain two domains of similar all-alpha fold, of which this family corresponds with the C-terminal domain.
DUF2074	Predicted permease (DUF2074). This domain, found in various archaeal hypothetical proteins, has no known function.
TIMELESS_C	Timeless protein C terminal region. The timeless (tim) gene is essential for circadian function in Drosophila. Putative homologues of Drosophila tim have been identified in both mice and humans (mTim and hTIM, respectively). Mammalian TIM is not the true orthologue of Drosophila TIM, but is the likely orthologue of a fly gene, timeout (also called tim-2). mTim has been shown to be essential for embryonic development, but does not have substantiated circadian function. Some family members contain a SANT domain in this region.
Swi3	Replication Fork Protection Component Swi3. Replication fork pausing is required to initiate a recombination events. More specifically, Swi1 is required for recombination near the mat1 locus. Swi3 has been found to co-purify with Swi1 Swi3, together with Swi1, define a fork protection complex that coordinates leading- and lagging-strand synthesis and stabilises stalled replication forks. The Swi1-Swi3 complex is required for accurate replication, fork protection and replication checkpoint signalling
DSS1_SEM1	DSS1/SEM1 family. This family contains the breast cancer tumour suppressor BRCA2-interacting protein DSS1 and its homologue SEM1, both of which are short acidic proteins. DSS1 has been shown to be a conserved component of the Rae1 mediated mRNA export pathway in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.
Herpes_UL24	Herpes virus protein UL24. This family consists of various herpes virus proteins; the gene 20 product, U49 protein, UL24 protein and BXRF1. The UL24 gene (product of the 24th ORF) is not essential for virus replication, mutants with lesions in UL24 show a reduced ability to replicate in tissue culture and have reduced thymidine kinase activity as the UL24 gene overlaps with thymidine kinase.
Borrelia_P83	Borrelia P83/100 protein. This family consists of several Borrelia P83/P100 antigen proteins.
U3_assoc_6	U3 small nucleolar RNA-associated protein 6. This is a family of U3 nucleolar RNA-associated proteins which are involved in nucleolar processing of pre-18S ribosomal RNA.
GCV_H	Glycine cleavage H-protein. This is a family of glycine cleavage H-proteins, part of the glycine cleavage multienzyme complex (GCV) found in bacteria and the mitochondria of eukaryotes. GCV catalyses the catabolism of glycine in eukaryotes. A lipoyl group is attached to a completely conserved lysine residue. The H protein shuttles the methylamine group of glycine from the P protein to the T protein.
DUF1475	Protein of unknown function (DUF1475). This family consists of several hypothetical plant proteins of around 250 residues in length. Members of this family seem to be found exclusively in Arabidopsis thaliana. The function of this family is unknown.
Pneumo_att_G	Pneumovirinae attachment membrane glycoprotein G. 
Dak2	DAK2 domain. This domain is the predicted phosphatase domain of the dihydroxyacetone kinase family.
Sulfate_transp	Sulfate transporter family. Mutations in the diastrophic dysplasia protein (solute carrier family 26 member 2) lead to several human diseases.
DUF2207	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2207). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
MazG	MazG nucleotide pyrophosphohydrolase domain. This domain is about 100 amino acid residues in length. It is found in the MazG protein from Escherichia coli. It contains four conserved negatively charged residues that probably form an active site or metal binding site. This domain is found in isolation in some proteins as well as associated with pfam00590. This domain is clearly related to pfam01503 another pyrophosphohydrolase involved in histidine biosynthesis. This family may be structurally related to the NUDIX domain pfam00293 (Bateman A pers. obs.).
X	Trans-activation protein X. This protein is found in hepadnaviruses where it is indispensable for replication.
DUF795	Protein of unknown function (DUF795). This family consists of several bacterial proteins of unknown function.
DUF223	Domain of unknown function DUF223. 
DUF2157	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2157). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
Peptidase_M48	Peptidase family M48. 
SURF1	SURF1 family. 
FBPase	Fructose-1-6-bisphosphatase. 
DUF1741	Domain of unknown function (DUF1741). This is a eukaryotic domain of unknown function.
Lipoprotein_5	Transferrin binding protein-like solute binding protein. This family of proteins are distantly related to other families of solute binding proteins.
ExbD	Biopolymer transport protein ExbD/TolR. This group of proteins are membrane bound transport proteins essential for ferric ion uptake in bacteria. The Pfam family consists of ExbD, and TolR which are involved in TonB-dependent transport of various receptor bound substrates including colicins.
SNF	Sodium:neurotransmitter symporter family. 
IQ	IQ calmodulin-binding motif. Calmodulin-binding motif.
LEA_4	Late embryogenesis abundant protein. Different types of LEA proteins are expressed at different stages of late embryogenesis in higher plant seed embryos and under conditions of dehydration stress. The function of these proteins is unknown.
DUF1464	Protein of unknown function (DUF1464). This family consists of several hypothetical archaeal proteins of around 350 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
Glyco_hydro_43	Glycosyl hydrolases family 43. The glycosyl hydrolase family 43 contains members that are arabinanase. Rabinanases hydrolyses the alpha-1,5-linked L-arabinofuranoside backbone of plant cell wall arabinans. The structure of arabinanase Arb43A from Cellvibrio japonicus reveals a five-bladed beta-propeller fold. A long V-shaped groove, partially enclosed at one end, forms a single extended substrate-binding surface across the face of the propeller.
DUF414	Protein of unknown function, DUF414. This family includes several bacterial proteins of unknown function, although at least one member is a putative coproporphyrinogen III oxidase.
Retrotrans_gag	Retrotransposon gag protein. Gag or Capsid-like proteins from LTR retrotransposons. There is a central motif QGXXEXXXXXFXXLXXH that is common to Retroviridae gag-proteins, but is poorly conserved.
ArsD	Arsenical resistance operon trans-acting repressor ArsD. This family consists of several bacterial arsenical resistance operon trans-acting repressor ArsD proteins. ArsD is a trans-acting repressor of the arsRDABC operon that confers resistance to arsenicals and antimonials in Escherichia coli. It possesses two-pairs of vicinal cysteine residues, Cys(12)-Cys(13) and Cys(112)-Cys(113), that potentially form separate binding sites for the metalloids that trigger dissociation of ArsD from the operon. However, as a homodimer it has four vicinal cysteine pairs.
AAT	Acyl-coenzyme A:6-aminopenicillanic acid acyl-transferase. 
NESP55	Neuroendocrine-specific golgi protein P55 (NESP55). This family consists of several mammalian neuroendocrine-specific golgi protein P55 (NESP55) sequences. NESP55 is a novel member of the chromogranin family and is a soluble, acidic, heat-stable secretory protein that is expressed exclusively in endocrine and nervous tissues, although less widely than chromogranins.
Stn1	Telomere regulation protein Stn1. The budding yeast protein Stn1 is a DNA-binding protein which has specificity for telomeric DNA. Structural profiling has predicted an OB-fold.
Merozoite_SPAM	Merozoite surface protein (SPAM). This family consists of several Plasmodium falciparum SPAM (secreted polymorphic antigen associated with merozoites) proteins. Variation among SPAM alleles is the result of deletions and amino acid substitutions in non-repetitive sequences within and flanking the alanine heptad-repeat domain. Heptad repeats in which the a and d position contain hydrophobic residues generate amphipathic alpha-helices which give rise to helical bundles or coiled-coil structures in proteins. SPAM is an example of a P. falciparum antigen in which a repetitive sequence has features characteristic of a well-defined structural element.
CS	CS domain. The CS and CHORD (pfam04968) are fused into a single polypeptide chain in metazoans but are found in separate proteins in plants; this is thought to be indicative of an interaction between CS and CHORD. It has been suggested that the CS domain is a binding module for HSP90, implying that CS domain-containing proteins are involved in recruiting heat shock proteins to multiprotein assemblies.
RIP	Ribosome inactivating protein. 
DUF924	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF924). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
3-dmu-9_3-mt	3-demethylubiquinone-9 3-methyltransferase. This family represents a conserved region approximately 100 residues long within a number of bacterial and archaeal 3-demethylubiquinone-9 3-methyltransferases (EC:2.1.1.64). Note that some family members contain more than one copy of this region, and that many members are hypothetical proteins.
DUF2010	Protein of unknown function. This is a family of proteins which show sequence similarity to the HAD superfamily of hydrolases.
Elicitin	Elicitin. Elicitins form a novel class of plant necrotic proteins which are secreted by Phytophthora and Pythium fungi, parasites of many economically important crops. These proteins induce leaf necrosis in infected plants and elicit an incompatible hypersensitive-like reaction, leading to the development of a systemic acquired resistance against a range of fungal and bacterial plant pathogens.
NADH-u_ox-rdase	NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase 21 kDa subunit. This family is conserved in the fungal Dikarya. The members are annotated as putative NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase 21 kDa subunits, but this could not be confirmed.
Transglut_core	Transglutaminase-like superfamily. This family includes animal transglutaminases and other bacterial proteins of unknown function. Sequence conservation in this superfamily primarily involves three motifs that centre around conserved cysteine, histidine, and aspartate residues that form the catalytic triad in the structurally characterised transglutaminase, the human blood clotting factor XIIIa'. On the basis of the experimentally demonstrated activity of the Methanobacterium phage pseudomurein endoisopeptidase, it is proposed that many, if not all, microbial homologues of the transglutaminases are proteases and that the eukaryotic transglutaminases have evolved from an ancestral protease.
PEARLI-4	Arabidopsis phospholipase-like protein (PEARLI 4). This family contains several phospholipase-like proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana which are homologous to PEARLI 4.
E_Pc_C	Enhancer of Polycomb C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus of eukaryotic enhancer of polycomb proteins, which have roles in heterochromatin formation. This family contains several conserved motifs.
SCRL	Plant self-incompatibility response (SCRL) protein. This family consists of several Plant self-incompatibility response (SCRL) proteins. The male component of the self-incompatibility response in Brassica has been shown to be encoded by the S locus cysteine-rich gene (SCR). SCR is related, at the sequence level, to the pollen coat protein (PCP) gene family whose members encode small, cysteine-rich proteins located in the proteo-lipidic surface layer (tryphine) of Brassica pollen grains.
DNA_pol_A	DNA polymerase family A. 
Cu-oxidase_2	Multicopper oxidase. This entry contains many divergent copper oxidase-like domains that are not recognised by the pfam00394 model.
DUF1998	Domain of unknown function (DUF1998). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised. They are mainly found in helicase proteins so could be RNA binding. This family includes a probable zinc binding motif at its C-terminus.
Baculo_PP31	Baculovirus 33KDa late protein (PP31). Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) pp31 is a nuclear phosphoprotein that accumulates in the virogenic stroma, which is the viral replication centre in the infected-cell nucleus, binds to DNA, and serves as a late expression factor.
LIM_bind	LIM-domain binding protein. The LIM-domain binding protein, binds to the LIM domain pfam00412 of LIM homeodomain proteins which are transcriptional regulators of development. Nuclear LIM interactor (NLI) / LIM domain-binding protein 1 (LDB1) is located in the nuclei of neuronal cells during development, it is co-expressed with Isl1 in early motor neuron differentiation and has a suggested role in the Isl1 dependent development of motor neurons. It is suggested that these proteins act synergistically to enhance transcriptional efficiency by acting as co-factors for LIM homeodomain and Otx class transcription factors both of which have essential roles in development. The Drosophila protein Chip is required for segmentation and activity of a remote wing margin enhancer. Chip is a ubiquitous chromosomal factor required for normal expression of diverse genes at many stages of development. It is suggested that Chip cooperates with different LIM domain proteins and other factors to structurally support remote enhancer-promoter interactions.
Acyl-CoA_dh_2	Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, C-terminal domain. 
SPC22	Signal peptidase subunit. Translocation of polypeptide chains across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane is triggered by signal sequences. During translocation of the nascent chain through the membrane, the signal sequence of most secretory and membrane proteins is cleaved off. Cleavage occurs by the signal peptidase complex (SPC) which consists of four subunits in yeast and five in mammals. This family is common to yeast and mammals.
Pox_G5	Poxvirus G5 protein. This protein has been predicted to be related to the FEN-1 endonuclease.
U6-snRNA_bdg	U6-snRNA interacting domain of PrP8. This domain incorporates the interacting site for the U6-snRNA as part of the U4/U6.U5 tri-snRNPs complex of the spliceosome, and is the prime candidate for the role of cofactor for the spliceosome's RNA core. The essential spliceosomal protein Prp8 interacts with U5 and U6 snRNAs and with specific pre-mRNA sequences that participate in catalysis. This close association with crucial RNA sequences, together with extensive genetic evidence, suggests that Prp8 could directly affect the function of the catalytic core, perhaps acting as a splicing cofactor.
BRE	Brain and reproductive organ-expressed protein (BRE). This family consists of several eukaryotic brain and reproductive organ-expressed (BRE) proteins. BRE is a putative stress-modulating gene, found able to down-regulate TNF-alpha-induced-NF-kappaB activation upon over expression. A total of six isoforms are produced by alternative splicing predominantly at either end of the gene.Compared to normal cells, immortalised human cell lines uniformly express higher levels of BRE. Peripheral blood monocytes respond to LPS by down-regulating the expression of all the BRE isoforms.It is thought that the function of BRE and its isoforms is to regulate peroxisomal activities.
Tetraspannin	Tetraspanin family. 
BRF1	Brf1-like TBP-binding domain. This region covers both the Brf homology II and III regions. This region is involved in binding TATA binding protein.
RE_HaeII	HaeII restriction endonuclease. This family includes the HaeII (recognises and cleaves RGCGC^Y) restriction endonuclease.
Rho_N	Rho termination factor, N-terminal domain. The Rho termination factor disengages newly transcribed RNA from its DNA template at certain, specific transcripts. It it thought that two copies of Rho bind to RNA and that Rho functions as a hexamer of protomers. This domain is found to the N-terminus of the RNA binding domain (pfam07497).
Tax	HTLV Tax. Human T-cell leukaemia virus type I (HTLV-I) is the etiological agent for adult T-cell leukaemia (ATL), as well as for tropical spastic paraparesis (TSP) and HTLV-I associate myelopathy (HAM). A biological understanding of the involvement of HTLV-I and in ATL has focused significantly on the workings of the virally-encoded 40 kDa phospho-oncoprotein, Tax. Tax is a transcriptional activator. Its ability to modulate the expression and function of many cellular genes has been reasoned to be a major contributory mechanism explaining HTLV-I-mediated transformation of cells. In activating cellular gene expression, Tax impinges upon several cellular signal-transduction pathways, including those for CREB/ATF and NF-kappaB.
TPP_enzyme_C	Thiamine pyrophosphate enzyme, C-terminal TPP binding domain. 
Kin17_mid	Domain of Kin17 curved DNA-binding protein. Kin17_mid is the conserved central 169 residue region of a family of Kin17 proteins. Towards the N-terminal end there is a zinc-finger domain, and in human and mouse members there is a RecA-like domain further downstream. The Kin17 protein in humans forms intra-nuclear foci during cell proliferation and is re-distributed in the nucleoplasm during the cell cycle.
NADH-G_4Fe-4S_3	NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase-G iron-sulfur binding region. 
MVIN	MviN-like protein. Deletion of the mviN virulence gene in Salmonella enterica serovar. Typhimurium greatly reduces virulence in a mouse model of typhoid-like disease. Open reading frames encoding homologues of MviN have since been identified in a variety of bacteria, including pathogens and non-pathogens and plant-symbionts. In the nitrogen-fixing symbiont Rhizobium tropici, mviN is required for motility. The MviM protein is predicted to be membrane-associated.
POX	Associated with HOX. The function of this domain is unknown. It is often found in plant proteins associated with pfam00046.
zf-4CXXC_R1	Zinc-finger domain of monoamine-oxidase A repressor R1. R1 is a transcription factor repressor that inhibits monoamine oxidase A gene expression. This domain is a four-CXXC zinc finger putative DNA-binding domain found at the C-terminal end of R1. The domain carries 12 cysteines of which four pairs are of the CXXC type.
Ribosomal_S21e	Ribosomal protein S21e. 
DUF699	Putative ATPase (DUF699). This putative domain is about 350 amino acid residues long and appears to have a P-loop motif, suggesting this is an ATPase. This domain is often associated with pfam00583. This domain is found in isolation in the uncharacterized protein HI1254 from Haemophilus influenzae.
MatC_N	Dicarboxylate carrier protein MatC N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminal region of the bacterial dicarboxylate carrier protein MatC. The MatC protein is an integral membrane protein that could function as a malonate carrier.
Ndufs5	NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, NDUFS5-15kDa. This is a family of short, approximately 105 amino acid residue, proteins which form part of NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex I. Complex I is the first multisubunit inner membrane protein complex of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and it transfers two electrons from NADH to ubiquinone. The protein carries four highly conserved cysteine residues but these do not appear to be in a configuration which would favour metal binding so the exact function of the protein is uncertain.
Borrelia_orfA	Borrelia ORF-A. This protein is encoded by an open reading frame in plasmid borne DNA repeats of Borrelia species. This protein is known as ORF-A. The function of this putative protein is unknown.
Ycf15	Chloroplast protein precursor Ycf15 putative. In some species of plants the ycf15 gene is probably not a protein-coding gene because the protein in these species has premature stop codons. Most of the members of the family are hypothetical or uncharacterised.
NIF3	NIF3 (NGG1p interacting factor 3). This family contains several NIF3 (NGG1p interacting factor 3) protein homologues. NIF3 interacts with the yeast transcriptional coactivator NGG1p which is part of the ADA complex, the exact function of this interaction is unknown.
FAE1_CUT1_RppA	FAE1/Type III polyketide synthase-like protein. The members of this family are described as 3-ketoacyl-CoA synthases, type III polyketide synthases, fatty acid elongases and fatty acid condensing enzymes, and are found in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic (mainly plant) species. The region featured in this family contains the active site residues, as well as motifs involved in substrate binding.
Acyl_transf_2	Acyl transferase. This bacterial family of Acyl transferases (or myristoyl-acp-specific thioesterases) catalyse the first step in the bioluminescent fatty acid reductase system.
Herpes_U55	Human herpesvirus U55 protein. This family consists of several human herpesvirus U55 proteins. The function of this family is unknown.
Mus7	Mus7/MMS22 family. This family includes a conserved region from the Mus7 protein. Mus7 is involved in the repair of replication-associated DNA damage in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Mus7 functions in the same pathway as Mus81, a subunit of the Mus81-Eme1 structure-specific endonuclease, which has been implicated in the repair of the replication-associated DNA damage. The MMS22 proteins are involved in repairing double-stranded DNA breaks created by the cleavage reaction of topoisomerase II.
Paf67	RNA polymerase I-associated factor PAF67. RNA polymerase I is a multisubunit enzyme and its transcription competence is dependent on the presence of PAF67. This family of proteins is conserved from worms to humans.
Mnd1	Mnd1 family. This family of proteins includes MND1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The mnd1 protein forms a complex with hop2 to promote homologous chromosome pairing and meiotic double-strand break repair.
eIF-3c_N	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit 8 N-terminus (eIF3c_N). The largest of the mammalian translation initiation factors, eIF3, consists of at least eight subunits ranging in mass from 35 to 170 kDa. eIF3 binds to the 40 S ribosome in an early step of translation initiation and promotes the binding of methionyl-tRNAi and mRNA.
EutH	Ethanolamine utilisation protein, EutH. EutH is a bacterial membrane protein whose molecular function is unknown. It has been suggested that it may act as an ethanolamine transporter, responsible for carrying ethanolamine from the periplasm to the cytoplasm.
PIG-S	Phosphatidylinositol-glycan biosynthesis class S protein. PIG-S is one of several key, core, components of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) trans-amidase complex that mediates GPI anchoring in the endoplasmic reticulum. Anchoring occurs when a protein's C-terminal GPI attachment signal peptide is replaced with a pre-assembled GPI. Mammalian GPITransamidase consists of at least five components: Gaa1, Gpi8, PIG-S, PIG-T, and PIG-U, all five of which are required for function. It is possible that Gaa1, Gpi8, PIG-S, and PIG-T form a tightly associated core that is only weakly associated with PIG-U. The exact function of PIG-S is unclear.
TPMT	Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT). This family consists of thiopurine S-methyltransferase proteins from both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyses S-methylation of aromatic and heterocyclic sulfhydryl compounds, including anticancer and immunosuppressive thiopurines.
Tom37	Outer mitochondrial membrane transport complex protein. The TOM37 protein is one of the outer membrane proteins that make up the TOM complex for guiding cytosolic mitochondrial beta-barrel proteins from the cytosol across the outer mitochondrial membrane into the intramembrane space. In conjunction with TOM70 it guides peptides without an MTS into TOM40, the protein that forms the passage through the outer membrane. It has homology with Metaxin-1, also part of the outer mitochondrial membrane beta-barrel protein transport complex.
SPC12	Microsomal signal peptidase 12 kDa subunit (SPC12). This family consists of several microsomal signal peptidase 12 kDa subunit proteins. Translocation of polypeptide chains across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane is triggered by signal sequences. Subsequently, signal recognition particle interacts with its membrane receptor and the ribosome-bound nascent chain is targeted to the ER where it is transferred into a protein-conducting channel. At some point, a second signal sequence recognition event takes place in the membrane and translocation of the nascent chain through the membrane occurs. The signal sequence of most secretory and membrane proteins is cleaved off at this stage. Cleavage occurs by the signal peptidase complex (SPC) as soon as the lumenal domain of the translocating polypeptide is large enough to expose its cleavage site to the enzyme. The signal peptidase complex is possibly also involved in proteolytic events in the ER membrane other than the processing of the signal sequence, for example the further digestion of the cleaved signal peptide or the degradation of membrane proteins. Mammalian signal peptidase is as a complex of five different polypeptide chains. This family represents the 12 kDa subunit (SPC12).
Plasmid_Txe	Plasmid encoded toxin Txe. The plasmid encoded Axe-Txe proteins in Enterococcus faecium act as an antitoxin-toxin pair. When the plasmid is lost, the antitoxin (Axe) is degraded relatively quickly by host enzymes. This allows the toxin to interact with its intracellular target, thus killing the cell or impeding cell growth. This family contains many hypothetical proteins.
cwf18	cwf18 pre-mRNA splicing factor. The cwf18 family is involved in mRNA splicing. It has been isolated as a subcomplex of the splicosome in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.
DUF1760	Fungal protein of unknown function (DUF1760). This is a family of fungal proteins of unknown function.
BPL_N	Biotin-protein ligase, N terminal. The function of this structural domain is unknown. It is found to the N terminus of the biotin protein ligase catalytic domain.
Phage_Mu_F	Phage Mu protein F like protein. Members of this family are found in double-stranded DNA bacteriophages, and in some bacteria. A member of this family is required for viral head morphogenesis in bacteriophage SPP1. This family is possibly a minor head protein. This family may be related to the family TT_ORF1 (pfam02956).
L1R_F9L	Lipid membrane protein of large eukaryotic DNA viruses. The four families of large eukaryotic DNA viruses, Poxviridae, Asfarviridae, Iridoviridae, and Phycodnaviridae, referred to collectively as nucleocytoplasmic large DNA viruses or NCLDV, have all been shown to have a lipid membrane, in spite of the major differences in virion structure. The paralogous genes L1R and F9L encode membrane proteins that have a conserved domain architecture, with a single, C-terminal transmembrane helix, and an N-terminal, multiple-disulfide-bonded domain. The conservation of the myristoylated, disulfide-bonded protein L1R/F9L in most of the NCLDV correlates with the conservation of the thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase E10R which, in vaccinia virus, is required for the formation of disulfide bonds in L1R and F9L.
PTA_PTB	Phosphate acetyl/butaryl transferase. This family contains both phosphate acetyltransferase and phosphate butaryltransferase. These enzymes catalyse the transfer of an acetyl or butaryl group to orthophosphate.
Lon_C	Lon protease (S16) C-terminal proteolytic domain. The Lon serine proteases must hydrolyse ATP to degrade protein substrates. In Escherichia coli, these proteases are involved in turnover of intracellular proteins, including abnormal proteins following heat-shock. The active site for protease activity resides in a C-terminal domain. The Lon proteases are classified as family S16 in Merops.
UCR_14kD	Ubiquinol-cytochrome C reductase complex 14kD subunit. The ubiquinol-cytochrome C reductase complex (cytochrome bc1 complex) is a respiratory multienzyme complex. This Pfam family represents the 14kD (or VI) subunit of the complex which is not directly involved in electron transfer, but has a role in assembly of the complex.
Hemerythrin	Hemerythrin HHE cation binding domain. Iteration of the HHE family found it to be related to Hemerythrin. It also demonstrated that what has been described as a single domain in fact consists of two cation binding domains. Members of this family occur all across nature and are involved in a variety of processes. For instance, in Nereis diversicolor MPII or CD-BP binds Cadmium so as to protect the organism from toxicity. However Hemerythrin is classically described as Oxygen-binding through two attached Fe2+ ions. And the bacterial NorA from Cupravidus necator is a regulator of response to NO, which suggests yet another set-up for its metal ligands. In Staphylococcus aureus P72360 has been noted to be important when the organism switches to living in environments with low oxygen concentrations; perhaps this protein acts as an oxygen store or scavenger.
DHO_dh	Dihydroorotate dehydrogenase. 
LacAB_rpiB	Ribose/Galactose Isomerase. This family of proteins contains the sugar isomerase enzymes ribose 5-phosphate isomerase B (rpiB), galactose isomerase subunit A (LacA) and galactose isomerase subunit B (LacB).
Sec62	Translocation protein Sec62. 
CorA	CorA-like Mg2+ transporter protein. The CorA transport system is the primary Mg2+ influx system of Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli. CorA is virtually ubiquitous in the Bacteria and Archaea. There are also eukaryotic relatives of this protein. The family includes the MRS2 protein from yeast that is thought to be an RNA splicing protein. However its membership of this family suggests that its effect on splicing is due to altered magnesium levels in the cell.
NIF	NLI interacting factor-like phosphatase. This family contains a number of NLI interacting factor isoforms and also an N-terminal regions of RNA polymerase II CTC phosphatase and FCP1 serine phosphatase. This region has been identified as the minimal phosphatase domain.
Rxt3	Histone deacetylation protein Rxt3. Rxt3 has been shown in yeast to be required for histone deacetylation.
MRP-L35	Mitochondrial 39S ribosomal protein L35. MRP-L35 is one of a group of proteins making up the 39 S large subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome. It is conserved from nematodes to humans.
Ppx-GppA	Ppx/GppA phosphatase family. This family consists of the N-terminal region of exopolyphosphatase (Ppx) EC:3.6.1.11 and guanosine pentaphosphate phospho-hydrolase (GppA) EC:3.6.1.40.
BOP1NT	BOP1NT (NUC169) domain. This N terminal domain is found in BOP1-like WD40 proteins.
PolC_DP2	DNA polymerase II large subunit DP2. 
zf-TRAF	TRAF-type zinc finger. 
BLOC1_2	Biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex-1 subunit 2. Members of this family of proteins play a role in cellular proliferation, as well as in the biogenesis of specialised organelles of the endosomal-lysosomal system.
zf-C2HC5	Putative zinc finger motif, C2HC5-type. This zinc finger appears to be common in activating signal cointegrator 1/thyroid receptor interacting protein 4.
BRCT	BRCA1 C Terminus (BRCT) domain. The BRCT domain is found predominantly in proteins involved in cell cycle checkpoint functions responsive to DNA damage. It has been suggested that the Retinoblastoma protein contains a divergent BRCT domain, this has not been included in this family. The BRCT domain of XRCC1 forms a homodimer in the crystal structure. This suggests that pairs of BRCT domains associate as homo- or heterodimers.
DUF300	Domain of unknown function. 
Latrophilin	Latrophilin Cytoplasmic C-terminal region. This family consists of the cytoplasmic C-terminal region in latrophilin. Latrophilin is a synaptic Ca2+ independent alpha- latrotoxin (LTX) receptor and is a novel member of the secretin family of G-protein coupled receptors that are involved in secretion. Latrophilin mRNA is present only in neuronal tissue. Lactrophillin interacts with G-alpha O.
ATP-grasp	ATP-grasp domain. This family does not contain all known ATP-grasp domain members. This family includes a diverse set of enzymes that possess ATP-dependent carboxylate-amine ligase activity.
PWP2	Periodic tryptophan protein 2 WD repeat associated presumed domain. 
EB	EB module. This domain has no known function. It is found in several Caenorhabditis elegans proteins. The domain contains 8 conserved cysteines that probably form four disulphide bridges. This domain is found associated with kunitz domains pfam00014.
TFIIS	Transcription elongation factor S-II protein N terminal. This domain corresponds to the alpha helical N terminal domain of transcription elongation factor S-II proteins.
ArgJ	ArgJ family. Members of the ArgJ family catalyse the first EC:2.3.1.1 and fifth steps EC:2.3.1.35 in arginine biosynthesis.
W2	eIF4-gamma/eIF5/eIF2-epsilon. This domain of unknown function is found at the C-terminus of several translation initiation factors.
ATP-synt_ab_C	ATP synthase alpha/beta chain, C terminal domain. 
PDCD2_C	Programmed cell death protein 2, C-terminal putative domain. 
Form_Nir_trans	Formate/nitrite transporter. 
DUF625	Protein of unknown function (DUF625). One of the proteins in this family is the yeast PSY2 protein which functions to stabilise or process stalled or collapsed replication forks.
RGM_N	Repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) N-terminus. This family consists of the N-terminal region of several mammalian and one bird sequence from Gallus gallus (Chicken). All of the mammalian proteins are hypothetical and have no known function but the member from chicken is annotated as being a repulsive guidance molecule (RGM). RGM is a GPI-linked axon guidance molecule of the retinotectal system. RGM is repulsive for a subset of axons, those from the temporal half of the retina. Temporal retinal axons invade the anterior optic tectum in a superficial layer, and encounter RGM expressed in a gradient with increasing concentration along the anterior-posterior axis. Temporal axons are able to receive posterior-dependent information by sensing gradients or concentrations of guidance cues. Thus, RGM is likely to provide positional information for temporal axons invading the optic tectum in the stratum opticum.
2-Hacid_dh_C	D-isomer specific 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase, NAD binding domain. This domain is inserted into the catalytic domain, the large dehydrogenase and D-lactate dehydrogenase families in SCOP. N-terminal portion of which is represented by family pfam00389.
DXP_reductoisom	1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase. This is a family of 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerases. This enzyme catalyses the formation of 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate from 1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate in the presence of NADPH. This reaction is part of the terpenoid biosynthesis pathway.
SH3_2	Variant SH3 domain. SH3 (Src homology 3) domains are often indicative of a protein involved in signal transduction related to cytoskeletal organisation. First described in the Src cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase. The structure is a partly opened beta barrel.
Chon_Sulph_att	Chondroitin sulphate attachment domain. This family represents the chondroitin sulphate attachment domain of vertebrate neural transmembrane proteoglycans that contain EGF modules. Evidence has been accumulated to support the idea that neural proteoglycans are involved in various cellular events including mitogenesis, differentiation, axonal outgrowth and synaptogenesis. This domain contains several potential sites of chondroitin sulphate attachment, as well as potential sites of N-linked glycosylation.
DUF1542	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF1542). This domain is found in several cell surface proteins. Some are involved in antibiotic resistance and/or cellular adhesion.
AF-4	AF-4 proto-oncoprotein. This family consists of AF4 (Proto-oncogene AF4) and FMR2 (Fragile X E mental retardation syndrome) nuclear proteins. These proteins have been linked to human diseases such as acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and mental retardation. The family also contains a Drosophila AF4 protein homologue Lilliputian which contains an AT-hook domain. Lilliputian represents a novel pair-rule gene that acts in cytoskeleton regulation, segmentation and morphogenesis in Drosophila.
GDA1_CD39	GDA1/CD39 (nucleoside phosphatase) family. 
DUF1178	Protein of unknown function (DUF1178). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 150 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
YkyA	Putative cell-wall binding lipoprotein. YkyA is a family of proteins containing a lipoprotein signal and a hydrolase domain. It is similar to cell wall binding proteins and might also be recognisable by a host immune defence system. It is thus likely to belong to pathways important for pathogenicity.
DUF1461	Protein of unknown function (DUF1461). This family contains a number of hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function approximately 200 residues long. These are possibly integral membrane proteins.
Sre	Caenorhabditis elegans Sre G protein-coupled chemoreceptor. Caenorhabditis elegans Sre proteins are candidate chemosensory receptors. There are four main recognised groups of such receptors: Odr-10, Sra, Sro, and Srg. Sre (this family), Sra pfam02117 and Srb pfam02175 comprise the Sra group. All of the above receptors are thought to be G protein-coupled seven transmembrane domain proteins. The existence of several different chemosensory receptors underlies the fact that in spite of having only 20-30 chemosensory neurones, Caenorhabditis elegans detects hundreds of different chemicals, with the ability to discern individual chemicals among combinations.
VHS	VHS domain. Domain present in VPS-27, Hrs and STAM.
DUF939	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF939). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
Borealin	Cell division cycle-associated protein 8. The chromosomal passenger complex of Aurora B kinase, INCENP, and Survivin has essential regulatory roles at centromeres and the central spindle in mitosis. Borealin is also a member of the complex. Approximately half of Aurora B in mitotic cells is complexed with INCENP, Borealin, and Survivin. Depletion of Borealin by RNA interference delays mitotic progression and results in kinetochore-spindle mis-attachments and an increase in bipolar spindles associated with ectopic asters.
VRR_NUC	VRR-NUC domain. 
EcsB	Bacterial ABC transporter protein EcsB. This family consists of several bacterial ABC transporter proteins which are homologous to the EcsB protein of Bacillus subtilis. EcsB is thought to encode a hydrophobic protein with six membrane-spanning helices in a pattern found in other hydrophobic components of ABC transporters.
ParBc	ParB-like nuclease domain. 
Whirly	Whirly transcription factor. This family contains the plant whirly transcription factors.
DUF1002	Protein of unknown function (DUF1002). This protein family has no known function. Its members are about 300 amino acids in length. It has so far been detected in Firmicute bacteria and some archaebacteria.
UPF0060	Uncharacterised BCR, YnfA/UPF0060 family. 
Hpt	Hpt domain. The histidine-containing phosphotransfer (HPt) domain is a novel protein module with an active histidine residue that mediates phosphotransfer reactions in the two-component signaling systems. A multistep phosphorelay involving the HPt domain has been suggested for these signaling pathways. The crystal structure of the HPt domain of the anaerobic sensor kinase ArcB has been determined. The domain consists of six alpha helices containing a four-helix bundle-folding. The pattern of sequence similarity of the HPt domains of ArcB and components in other signaling systems can be interpreted in light of the three-dimensional structure and supports the conclusion that the HPt domains have a common structural motif both in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae ypd1p this domain has been shown to contain a binding surface for Ssk1p (response regulator receiver domain containing protein pfam00072).
RB_B	Retinoblastoma-associated protein B domain. The crystal structure of the Rb pocket bound to a nine-residue E7 peptide containing the LxCxE motif, shared by other Rb-binding viral and cellular proteins, shows that the LxCxE peptide binds a highly conserved groove on the B domain. The B domain has a cyclin fold.
AMP_N	Aminopeptidase P, N-terminal domain. This domain is structurally very similar to the creatinase N-terminal domain (pfam01321). However, little or no sequence similarity exists between the two families.
Ribosomal_L28	Ribosomal L28 family. The ribosomal 28 family includes L28 proteins from bacteria and chloroplasts. The L24 protein from yeast also contains a region of similarity to prokaryotic L28 proteins. L24 from yeast is also found in the large ribosomal subunit
Ras	Ras family. Includes sub-families Ras, Rab, Rac, Ral, Ran, Rap Ypt1 and more. Shares P-loop motif with GTP_EFTU, arf and myosin_head. See pfam00009 pfam00025, pfam00063. As regards Rab GTPases, these are important regulators of vesicle formation, motility and fusion. They share a fold in common with all Ras GTPases: this is a six-stranded beta-sheet surrounded by five alpha-helices.
Stig1	Stigma-specific protein, Stig1. This family represents the Stig1 cysteine rich plant protein. The STIG1 gene is developmentally regulated and expressed specifically in the stigmatic secretory zone.
Transgly	Transglycosylase. The penicillin-binding proteins are bifunctional proteins consisting of transglycosylase and transpeptidase in the N- and C-terminus respectively. The transglycosylase domain catalyses the polymerisation of murein glycan chains.
Pilus_CpaD	Pilus biogenesis CpaD protein (pilus_cpaD). Proteins in this entry consist of a pilus biogenesis protein, CpaD, from Caulobacter, and homologues in other bacteria, including three in the root nodule bacterium Bradyrhizobium japonicum. The molecular function of the homologues is not known.
SURF6	Surfeit locus protein 6. The surfeit locus protein SURF-6 is shown to be a component of the nucleolar matrix and has a strong binding capacity for nucleic acids.
Drf_GBD	Diaphanous GTPase-binding Domain. This domain is bound to by GTP-attached Rho proteins, leading to activation of the Drf protein.
tRNA-synt_2d	tRNA synthetases class II core domain (F). Other tRNA synthetase sub-families are too dissimilar to be included. This family includes only phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetases. This is the core catalytic domain.
WGG	Pre-rRNA-processing protein TSR2. This entry represents the central conserved section of a family of proteins described as pre-rRNA-processing protein TSR2. The region has a distinctive WGG motif but the function is unknown.
NAD4L	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 4L (NAD4L). This family consists of NADH dehydrogenase subunit 4L (NAD4L) proteins from the mitochondria of several parasitic flatworms.
SNase	Staphylococcal nuclease homologue. Present in all three domains of cellular life. Four copies in the transcriptional coactivator p100: these, however, appear to lack the active site residues of Staphylococcal nuclease. Positions 14 (Asp-21), 34 (Arg-35), 39 (Asp-40), 42 (Glu-43) and 110 (Arg-87) [SNase numbering in parentheses] are thought to be involved in substrate-binding and catalysis.
BacA	Bacitracin resistance protein BacA. Bacitracin resistance protein (BacA) is a putative undecaprenol kinase. BacA confers resistance to bacitracin, probably by phosphorylation of undecaprenol.
SBP56	56kDa selenium binding protein (SBP56). This family consists of several eukaryotic selenium binding proteins as well as three sequences from archaea. The exact function of this protein is unknown although it is thought that SBP56 participates in late stages of intra-Golgi protein transport. The Lotus japonicus homologue of SBP56, LjSBP is thought to have more than one physiological role and can be implicated in controlling the oxidation/reduction status of target proteins, in vesicular Golgi transport.
Peptidase_S11	D-alanyl-D-alanine carboxypeptidase. 
Kelch_2	Kelch motif. The kelch motif was initially discovered in Kelch. In this protein there are six copies of the motif. It has been shown that Drosophila ring canal kelch protein is related to Galactose Oxidase for which a structure has been solved. The kelch motif forms a beta sheet. Several of these sheets associate to form a beta propeller structure as found in pfam00064, pfam00400 and pfam00415.
Vps54	Vps54-like protein. This family contains various proteins that are homologs of the yeast Vps54 protein, such as the rat homolog, the human homolog, and the mouse homolog. In yeast, Vps54 associates with Vps52 and Vps53 proteins to form a trimolecular complex that is involved in protein transport between Golgi, endosomal, and vacuolar compartments. All Vps54 homologs contain a coiled coil region (not found in the region featured in this family) and multiple dileucine motifs.
HTH_1	Bacterial regulatory helix-turn-helix protein, lysR family. 
Transket_pyr	Transketolase, pyrimidine binding domain. This family includes transketolase enzymes, pyruvate dehydrogenases, and branched chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylases.
LETM1	LETM1-like protein. Members of this family are inner mitochondrial membrane proteins which play a role in potassium and hydrogen ion exchange. Deletion of LETM1 is thought to be involved in the development of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome in humans.
Herpes_teg_N	Herpesvirus tegument protein, N-terminal conserved region. 
MCE	mce related protein. This family of proteins contains the mce (mammalian cell entry) proteins from Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The archetype (Rv0169), was isolated as being necessary for colonisation of, and survival within, the macrophage. This family contains proteins of unknown function from other bacteria.
Peptidase_M50	Peptidase family M50. 
FAE_3-kCoA_syn1	Fatty acid elongase 3-ketoacyl-CoA synthase 1. This family contains fatty acid elongase 3-ketoacyl-CoA synthase 1, a plant enzyme approximately 350 residues long.
MSSP	Male specific sperm protein. This family of drosophila proteins are typified by the repetitive motif C-G-P.
GIDA	Glucose inhibited division protein A. 
DUF719	Protein of unknown function (DUF719). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
LEA_2	Late embryogenesis abundant protein. Different types of LEA proteins are expressed at different stages of late embryogenesis in higher plant seed embryos and under conditions of dehydration stress. The function of these proteins is unknown. This family represents a group of LEA proteins that appear to be distinct from those in pfam02987.
Pox_I6	Poxvirus I6-like family. This family includes I6 proteins as well as the related F5L proteins.
WI12	Wound-induced protein WI12. This family consists of several plant wound-induced protein sequences related to WI12 from Mesembryanthemum crystallinum. Wounding, methyl jasmonate, and pathogen infection is known to induce local WI12 expression. WI12 expression is also thought to be developmentally controlled in the placenta and developing seeds. WI12 preferentially accumulates in the cell wall and it has been suggested that it plays a role in the reinforcement of cell wall composition after wounding and during plant development.
DUF760	Protein of unknown function (DUF760). This family contains several uncharacterised plant proteins.
DUF1980	Domain of unknown function (DUF1980). Members of this family are found in a set of prokaryotic hypothetical proteins. Their exact function, has not, as yet, been defined.
MHYT	Bacterial signalling protein N terminal repeat. Found as an N terminal triplet tandem repeat in bacterial signalling proteins. Family includes CoxC and CoxH from P.carboxydovorans. Each repeat contains two transmembrane helices. Domain is also described as the MHYT domain.
Cu_amine_oxid	Copper amine oxidase, enzyme domain. Copper amine oxidases are a ubiquitous and novel group of quinoenzymes that catalyse the oxidative deamination of primary amines to the corresponding aldehydes, with concomitant reduction of molecular oxygen to hydrogen peroxide. The enzymes are dimers of identical 70-90 kDa subunits, each of which contains a single copper ion and a covalently bound cofactor formed by the post-translational modification of a tyrosine side chain to 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenylalanine quinone (TPQ). This family corresponds to the catalytic domain of the enzyme.
GAF	GAF domain. Domain present in phytochromes and cGMP-specific phosphodiesterases.
DHHA1	DHHA1 domain. This domain is often found adjacent to the DHH domain pfam01368 and is called DHHA1 for DHH associated domain. This domain is diagnostic of DHH subfamily 1 members. This domains is also found in alanyl tRNA synthetase, suggesting that this domain may have an RNA binding function. The domain is about 60 residues long and contains a conserved GG motif.
GrpE	GrpE. 
PSII	Photosystem II protein. 
SecA_DEAD	SecA DEAD-like domain. SecA protein binds to the plasma membrane where it interacts with proOmpA to support translocation of proOmpA through the membrane. SecA protein achieves this translocation, in association with SecY protein, in an ATP dependent manner. This domain represents the N-terminal ATP-dependent helicase domain, which is related to the pfam00270.
Inhibitor_I29	Cathepsin propeptide inhibitor domain (I29). This domain is found at the N-terminus of some C1 peptidases such as Cathepsin L where it acts as a propeptide. There are also a number of proteins that are composed solely of multiple copies of this domain such as the peptidase inhibitor salarin. This family is classified as I29 by MEROPS.
Peptidase_C54	Peptidase family C54. 
Phage_E	Phage tail protein E. Family of small phage tail protein, referred to as protein E.
V-ATPase_C	V-ATPase subunit C. 
RHD3	Root hair defective 3 GTP-binding protein (RHD3). This family consists of several eukaryotic root hair defective 3 like GTP-binding proteins. It has been speculated that the RHD3 protein is a member of a novel class of GTP-binding proteins that is widespread in eukaryotes and required for regulated cell enlargement. The family also contains the homologous yeast synthetic enhancement of YOP1 (SEY1) protein which is involved in membrane trafficking.
Pex19	Pex19 protein family. 
Cullin_Nedd8	Cullin protein neddylation domain. This is the neddylation site of cullin proteins which are a family of structurally related proteins containing an evolutionarily conserved cullin domain. With the exception of APC2, each member of the cullin family is modified by Nedd8 and several cullins function in Ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis, a process in which the 26S proteasome recognises and subsequently degrades a target protein tagged with K48-linked poly-ubiquitin chains. Cullins are molecular scaffolds responsible for assembling the ROC1/Rbx1 RING-based E3 ubiquitin ligases, of which several play a direct role in tumorigenesis. Nedd8/Rub1 is a small ubiquitin-like protein, which was originally found to be conjugated to Cdc53, a cullin component of the SCF (Skp1-Cdc53/CUL1-F-box protein) E3 Ub ligase complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Nedd8 modification has now emerged as a regulatory pathway of fundamental importance for cell cycle control and for embryogenesis in metazoans. The only identified Nedd8 substrates are cullins. Neddylation results in covalent conjugation of a Nedd8 moiety onto a conserved cullin lysine residue.
ELO	GNS1/SUR4 family. Members of this family are involved in long chain fatty acid elongation systems that produce the 26-carbon precursors for ceramide and sphingolipid synthesis. Predicted to be integral membrane proteins, in eukaryotes they are probably located on the endoplasmic reticulum. Yeast ELO3 affects plasma membrane H+-ATPase activity, and may act on a glucose-signaling pathway that controls the expression of several genes that are transcriptionally regulated by glucose such as PMA1.
BPD_transp_1	Binding-protein-dependent transport system inner membrane component. The alignments cover the most conserved region of the proteins, which is thought to be located in a cytoplasmic loop between two transmembrane domains. The members of this family have a variable number of transmembrane helices.
Glyco_hydro_3_C	Glycosyl hydrolase family 3 C terminal domain. This domain is involved in catalysis and may be involved in binding beta-glucan. This domain is found associated with pfam00933.
PP2A_B_N	Serine-threonine phosphatase 2A subunit B alpha and beta N-terminal domain. Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a serine/threonine phosphatase involved in many aspects of cellular function including the regulation of metabolic enzymes and proteins involved in signal transduction. PP2A is a trimeric enzyme consisting of a central catalytic core, and two subunits, A and B. This is the N-terminal domain of subunit B that is thought to perform substrate recognition function or be responsible for targeting the enzyme complex to the appropriate subcellular compartment. Changes in intracellular PP2A subunit composition have been found modulate micro-tubule dynamics. It would appear that reduced amounts of neuronal B-alpha-containing PP2A heterotrimers contribute to micro-tubule destabilisation in Alzheimer's disease.
FMN_dh	FMN-dependent dehydrogenase. 
DUF2126	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2126). Members of this family of bacterial domains are predominantly found in transglutaminase and transglutaminase-like proteins. Their exact function is, as yet, unknown.
FliD_N	Flagellar hook-associated protein 2 C-terminus. The flagellar hook-associated protein 2 (HAP2 or FliD) forms the distal end of the flagella, and plays a role in mucin specific adhesion of the bacteria. This alignment covers the N-terminal region of this family of proteins.
Sulfatase	Sulfatase. 
CALCOCO1	Calcium binding and coiled-coil domain (CALCOCO1) like. Proteins found in this family are similar to the coiled-coil transcriptional coactivator protein coexpressed by Mus musculus (CoCoA/CALCOCO1). This protein binds to a highly conserved N-terminal domain of p160 coactivators, such as GRIP1, and thus enhances transcriptional activation by a number of nuclear receptors. CALCOCO1 has a central coiled-coil region with three leucine zipper motifs, which is required for its interaction with GRIP1 and may regulate the autonomous transcriptional activation activity of the C-terminal region.
Peptidase_M26_C	M26 IgA1-specific Metallo-endopeptidase C-terminal region. These peptidases, which cleave mammalian IgA, are found in Gram-positive bacteria. Often found associated with pfam00746, they may be attached to the cell wall.
Sm_multidrug_ex	Putative small multi-drug export protein. This family contains a small number of putative small multi-drug export proteins.
IF2_assoc	Bacterial translation initiation factor IF-2 associated region. Most of the sequences in this alignment come from bacterial translation initiation factors (IF-2, also pfam04760), but the domain is also found in the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4 gamma in yeast and in a hypothetical Euglenozoa protein of unknown function.
DDHD	DDHD domain. The DDHD domain is 180 residues long and contains four conserved residues that may form a metal binding site. The domain is named after these four residues. This pattern of conservation of metal binding residues is often seen in phosphoesterase domains. This domain is found in retinal degeneration B proteins, as well as a family of probable phospholipases. It has been shown that this domain is found in a longer C terminal region that binds to PYK2 tyrosine kinase. These proteins have been called N-terminal domain-interacting receptor (Nir1, Nir2 and Nir3). This suggests that this region is involved in functionally important interactions in other members of this family.
DUF1624	Protein of unknown function (DUF1624). These sequences are found in hypothetical proteins of unknown function expressed by bacterial and archaeal species. The region in question is approximately 230 residues long.
DUF2380	Predicted lipoprotein of unknown function (DUF2380). This family consists of at least 9 paralogs in Myxococcus xanthus, a member of the Deltaproteobacteria. One appears truncated toward the N-terminus; the others are predicted lipoproteins. The function is unknown.
LsmAD	LsmAD domain. This domain is found associated with Lsm domain.
FCD	FCD domain. This domain is the C-terminal ligand binding domain of many members of the GntR family. This domain probably binds to a range of effector molecules that regulate the transcription of genes through the action of the N-terminal DNA-binding domain pfam00392. This domain is found in Escherichia coli nanR and the galactonate operon transcriptional repressor that are regulators of sugar biosynthesis operons. It is also in the known structure of FadR where it binds to acyl-coA, the domain is alpha helical. This family has been named as FCD for (FadR C-terminal Domain).
Catalase-rel	Catalase-related immune-responsive. This family represents a small conserved region within catalase enzymes (EC:1.11.1.6). All members also contain the Catalase family, pfam00199 domain. Catalase decomposes hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen, serving to protect cells from its toxic effects. This domain carries the immune-responsive amphipathic octa-peptide that is recognised by T cells.
DUF562	Protein of unknown function (DUF562). Family of uncharacterised proteins.
Ribosomal_S24e	Ribosomal protein S24e. 
DUF1180	Protein of unknown function (DUF1180). This family consists of several hypothetical mammalian proteins of around 190 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
SE	Squalene epoxidase. This domain is found in squalene epoxidase (SE) and related proteins which are found in taxonomically diverse groups of eukaryotes and also in bacteria. SE was first cloned from Saccharomyces cerevisiae where it was named ERG1. It contains a putative FAD binding site and is a key enzyme in the sterol biosynthetic pathway. Putative transmembrane regions are found to the protein's C-terminus.
AFG1_ATPase	AFG1-like ATPase. This family of proteins contains a P-loop motif and are predicted to be ATPases.
Phlebovirus_N	Phlebovirus nucleocapsid (N) protein. This family consists of several Phlebovirus nucleocapsid (N) proteins.
DUF2404	Putative integral membrane protein conserved region (DUF2404). This domain is conserved from plants to humans. The function is not known.
Bac_luciferase	Luciferase-like monooxygenase. 
MF_alpha_N	Mating factor alpha precursor N-terminus. This family contains the N-terminal regions of the Saccharomyces mating factor alpha precursor protein. All proteins in this family contain one or more copies pfam04648 further toward their C terminus.
RNA_pol_Rpb1_5	RNA polymerase Rpb1, domain 5. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain, domain 5, represents the discontinuous cleft domain that is required to from the central cleft or channel where the DNA is bound.
DNA_gyraseB_C	DNA gyrase B subunit, carboxyl terminus. The amino terminus of eukaryotic and prokaryotic DNA topoisomerase II are similar, but they have a different carboxyl terminus. The amino-terminal portion of the DNA gyrase B protein is thought to catalyse the ATP-dependent super-coiling of DNA. See pfam00204. The carboxyl-terminal end supports the complexation with the DNA gyrase A protein and the ATP-independent relaxation. This family also contains Topoisomerase IV. This is a bacterial enzyme that is closely related to DNA gyrase,.
Bindin	Bindin. 
Vitellogenin_N	Lipoprotein amino terminal region. This family contains regions from: Vitellogenin, Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein and apolipoprotein B-100. These proteins are all involved in lipid transport. This family contains the LV1n chain from lipovitellin, that contains two structural domains.
CD34_antigen	CD34/Podocalyxin family. This family consists of several mammalian CD34 antigen proteins. The CD34 antigen is a human leukocyte membrane protein expressed specifically by lymphohematopoietic progenitor cells. CD34 is a phosphoprotein. Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) has been found to enhance CD34 phosphorylation. This family contains several eukaryotic podocalyxin proteins. Podocalyxin is a major membrane protein of the glomerular epithelium and is thought to be involved in maintenance of the architecture of the foot processes and filtration slits characteristic of this unique epithelium by virtue of its high negative charge. Podocalyxin functions as an anti-adhesin that maintains an open filtration pathway between neighbouring foot processes in the glomerular epithelium by charge repulsion.
Chal_sti_synt_N	Chalcone and stilbene synthases, N-terminal domain. The C-terminal domain of Chalcone synthase is reported to be structurally similar to domains in thiolase and beta-ketoacyl synthase. The differences in activity are accounted for by differences in this N-terminal domain.
RPAP2_Rtr1	Rtr1/RPAP2 family. This family includes the human RPAP2 (RNAP II associated polypeptide) protein and the yeast Rtr1 protein. It has been suggested that this family of proteins are regulators of core RNA polymerase II function.
NUP50	NUP50 (Nucleoporin 50 kDa). Nucleoporin 50 kDa (NUP50) acts as a cofactor for the importin-alpha:importin-beta heterodimer, which in turn allows for transportation of many nuclear-targeted proteins through nuclear pore complexes. The C terminus of NUP50 binds importin-beta through RAN-GTP, the N terminus binds the C terminus of importin-alpha, while a central domain binds importin-beta. NUP50:importin-alpha:importin-beta then binds cargo and can stimulate nuclear import. The N-terminal domain of NUP50 is also able to actively displace nuclear localisation signals from importin-alpha.
Prefoldin_2	Prefoldin subunit. This family includes prefoldin subunits that are not detected by pfam02996.
UPF0052	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0052. 
Metallothio_Pro	Prokaryotic metallothionein. 
DUF689	Anamorsin family. This family contains several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins of unknown function. The most conserved region is at the C-terminus and contains several conserved cysteines.
Sdh_cyt	Succinate dehydrogenase cytochrome b subunit. 
UBX	UBX domain. This domain is present in ubiquitin-regulatory proteins and is a general Cdc48-interacting module.
Toluene_X	Outer membrane protein transport protein (OMPP1/FadL/TodX). This family includes TodX from Pseudomonas putida F1 and TbuX from Ralstonia pickettii PKO1. These are membrane proteins of uncertain function that are involved in toluene catabolism. Related proteins involved in the degradation of similar aromatic hydrocarbons are also in this family, such as CymD. This family also includes FadL involved in translocation of long-chain fatty acids across the outer membrane. It is also a receptor for the bacteriophage T2.
Ole-e-6	Pollen allergen ole e 6. Members of this family consist of two nearly antiparallel alpha-helices, that are connected by a short loop and followed by a long, unstructured C-terminal tail. They are highly allergenic, primarily mediating olive allergy.
DUF680	Protein of unknown function (DUF680). This family contains several uncharacterised proteins which seem to be found exclusively in Rhizobium loti.
Nrap	Nrap protein. Members of this family are nucleolar RNA-associated proteins (Nrap) which are highly conserved from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) to human. In the mouse, Nrap is ubiquitously expressed and is specifically localised in the nucleolus. Nrap is a large nucleolar protein (of more than 1000 amino acids). Nrap appears to be associated with ribosome biogenesis by interacting with pre-rRNA primary transcript.
Ustilago_mating	Ustilago B locus mating-type protein. This family consists of several Ustilago mating-type proteins. The b locus of the phytopathogenic fungus Ustilago maydis encodes a multiallelic recognition function that controls the ability of the fungus to form a dikaryon and complete the sexual stage of the life cycle. The b locus has at least 25 alleles and any combination of two different alleles, brought together by mating between haploid cells, allows the fungus to cause disease and undergo sexual development within the plant.
RuBisCO_small	Ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase, small chain. 
Arginase	Arginase family. 
TIM-br_sig_trns	TIM-barrel signal transduction protein. This domain is likely to have a TIM barrel fold related to IGPS. Although this family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised this domain is found as an N-terminal domain of sigma 54 -dependent transcriptional activators (enhancer-binding proteins) suggesting a potential role in signal recognition/receiving and signal transduction.
SURNod19	Stress up-regulated Nod 19. 
HCO3_cotransp	HCO3- transporter family. This family contains Band 3 anion exchange proteins that exchange CL-/HCO3-. This family also includes cotransporters of Na+/HCO3-.
TFIIA_gamma_C	Transcription initiation factor IIA, gamma subunit, beta-barrel domain. Accurate transcription in vivo requires at least six general transcription initiation factors, in addition to RNA polymerase II. Transcription initiation factor IIA (TFIIA) is a multimeric protein which facilitates the binding of TFIID to the TATA box. The C-terminal domain of the gamma subunit is a 12 stranded beta-barrel.
PIP5K	Phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-Kinase. This family contains a region from the common kinase core found in the type I phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) family. The family consists of various type I, II and III PIP5K enzymes. PIP5K catalyses the formation of phosphoinositol-4,5-bisphosphate via the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate a precursor in the phosphinositide signaling pathway.
FAST_1	FAST kinase-like protein, subdomain 1. This family represents a conserved region of eukaryotic Fas-activated serine/threonine (FAST) kinases (EC:2.7.1.-) that contains several conserved leucine residues. FAST kinase is rapidly activated during Fas-mediated apoptosis, when it phosphorylates TIA-1, a nuclear RNA-binding protein that has been implicated as an effector of apoptosis. Note that many family members are hypothetical proteins. This region is often found immediately N-terminal to the FAST kinase-like protein, subdomain 2.
Exo_endo_phos	Endonuclease/Exonuclease/phosphatase family. This large family of proteins includes magnesium dependent endonucleases and a large number of phosphatases involved in intracellular signalling. This family includes: AP endonuclease proteins EC:4.2.99.18, DNase I proteins EC:3.1.21.1, Synaptojanin an inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate phosphatase EC:3.1.3.56, Sphingomyelinase EC:3.1.4.12 and Nocturnin.
RNA_pol_Rpb2_3	RNA polymerase Rpb2, domain 3. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). Domain 3, s also known as the fork domain and is proximal to catalytic site.
MreD	rod shape-determining protein MreD. MreD (murein formation D) is involved in the rod shape determination in Escherichia coli, and more generally in cell shape determination of bacteria whether or not they are rod-shaped.
Rad21_Rec8_N	N terminus of Rad21 / Rec8 like protein. This family represents a conserved N-terminal region found in eukaryotic cohesins of the Rad21, Rec8 and Scc1 families. Members of this family mediate sister chromatid cohesion during mitosis and meiosis, as part of the cohesin complex. Cohesion is necessary for homologous recombination (including double-strand break repair) and correct chromatid segregation. These proteins may also be involved in chromosome condensation. Dissociation at the metaphase to anaphase transition causes loss of cohesion and chromatid segregation.
NPDC1	Neural proliferation differentiation control-1 protein (NPDC1). This family consists of several neural proliferation differentiation control-1 (NPDC1) proteins. NPDC1 plays a role in the control of neural cell proliferation and differentiation. It has been suggested that NPDC1 may be involved in the development of several secretion glands. This family also contains the C-terminal region of the Caenorhabditis elegans protein CAB-1 which is known to interact with AEX-3.
Mito_carr	Mitochondrial carrier protein. 
NodZ	Nodulation protein Z (NodZ). The nodulation genes of Rhizobia are regulated by the nodD gene product in response to host-produced flavonoids and appear to encode enzymes involved in the production of a lipo-chitose signal molecule required for infection and nodule formation. NodZ is required for the addition of a 2-O-methylfucose residue to the terminal reducing N-acetylglucosamine of the nodulation signal. This substitution is essential for the biological activity of this molecule. Mutations in nodZ result in defective nodulation. nodZ represents a unique nodulation gene that is not under the control of NodD and yet is essential for the synthesis of an active nodulation signal.
Invertase_neut	Plant neutral invertase. This family represents a number of plant neutral invertases (EC:3.2.1.26).
Ricin_B_lectin	Ricin-type beta-trefoil lectin domain. 
Sterol_MT_C	Sterol methyltransferase C-terminal. This domain is found to the C-terminus of a methyltransferase domain (pfam08241) in fungal and plant sterol methyltransferases.
MMS1	Mono-functional DNA-alkylating agent methyl methanesulfonate. MMS1 is a protein that protects against replication-dependent DNA damage in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Fic	Fic/DOC family. This family consists of the Fic (filamentation induced by cAMP) protein and doc (death on curing). The Fic protein is involved in cell division and is suggested to be involved in the synthesis of PAB or folate, indicating that the Fic protein and cAMP are involved in a regulatory mechanism of cell division via folate metabolism. This family contains a central conserved motif HPFXXGNG in most members. The exact molecular function of these proteins is uncertain. P1 lysogens of Escherichia coli carry the prophage as a stable low copy number plasmid. The frequency with which viable cells cured of prophage are produced is about 10(-5) per cell per generation. A significant part of this remarkable stability can be attributed to a plasmid-encoded mechanism that causes death of cells that have lost P1. In other words, the lysogenic cells appear to be addicted to the presence of the prophage. The plasmid withdrawal response depends on a gene named doc (death on curing) that is represented by this family.
zf-C3HC	C3HC zinc finger-like. This zinc-finger like domain is distributed throughout the eukaryotic kingdom in NIPA (Nuclear interacting partner of ALK) proteins. NIPA is implicate to perform some sort of antiapoptotic role in nucleophosmin-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) mediated signaling events. The domain is often repeated, with the second domain usually containing a large insert (approximately 90 residues) after the first three cysteine residues. The Schizosaccharomyces pombe the protein containing this domain is involved in mRNA export from the nucleus.
SAYSvFN	Uncharacterized conserved domain (SAYSvFN). This domain of approximately 75 residues contains a highly conserved SATSv/iFN motif. The function is unknown but the domain is conserved from plants to humans.
Exostosin	Exostosin family. The EXT family is a family of tumour suppressor genes. Mutations of EXT1 on 8q24.1, EXT2 on 11p11-13, and EXT3 on 19p have been associated with the autosomal dominant disorder known as hereditary multiple exostoses (HME). This is the most common known skeletal dysplasia. The chromosomal locations of other EXT genes suggest association with other forms of neoplasia. EXT1 and EXT2 have both been shown to encode a heparan sulphate polymerase with both D-glucuronyl (GlcA) and N-acetyl-D-glucosaminoglycan (GlcNAC) transferase activities. The nature of the defect in heparan sulphate biosynthesis in HME is unclear.
DUF1529	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF1259). This family is the lppY/lpqO homologue family.
CMD	Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase family. Carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (CMD) EC:4.1.1.44 is involved in protocatechuate catabolism. In some bacteria a gene fusion event leads to expression of CMD with a hydrolase involved in the same pathway. In these bifunctional proteins CMD represents the C-terminal domain, pfam00561 represents the N-terminal domain.
Prenylcys_lyase	Prenylcysteine lyase. This family contains prenylcysteine lyases (EC:1.8.3.5) that are approximately 500 residues long. Prenylcysteine lyase is a FAD-dependent thioether oxidase that degrades a variety of prenylcysteines, producing free cysteine, an isoprenoid aldehyde and hydrogen peroxide as products of the reaction. It has been noted that this enzyme has considerable homology with ClP55, a 55 kDa protein that is associated with chloride ion pumps.
DUF1767	Domain of unknown function (DUF1767). Eukaryotic domain of unknown function. This domain is found to the N-terminus of the nucleic acid binding domain.
Caps_synth	Capsular polysaccharide synthesis protein. This family consists of several capsular polysaccharide proteins. Capsular polysaccharide (CPS) is a major virulence factor in Streptococcus pneumoniae.
MutS_I	MutS domain I. This domain is found in proteins of the MutS family (DNA mismatch repair proteins) and is found associated with pfam00488, pfam05188, pfam05192 and pfam05190. The MutS family of proteins is named after the Salmonella typhimurium MutS protein involved in mismatch repair; other members of the family included the eukaryotic MSH 1,2,3, 4,5 and 6 proteins. These have various roles in DNA repair and recombination. Human MSH has been implicated in non-polyposis colorectal carcinoma (HNPCC) and is a mismatch binding protein. The aligned region corresponds with globular domain I, which is involved in DNA binding, in Thermus aquaticus MutS.
F-actin_cap_A	F-actin capping protein alpha subunit. 
APC_basic	APC basic domain. This region of the APC family of proteins is known as the basic domain. It contains a high proportion of positively charged amino acids and interacts with microtubules.
B5	tRNA synthetase B5 domain. This domain is found in phenylalanine-tRNA synthetase beta subunits.
SNURF	SNURF/RPN4 protein. This family consists of several mammalian SNRPN upstream reading frame (SNURF) proteins. SNURF or RPF4 is a RING-finger protein and a coregulator of androgen receptor-dependent transcription. It has been suggested that SNURF is involved in the regulation of processes required for late steps of spermatid maturation.
FolB	Dihydroneopterin aldolase. This enzyme EC:4.1.2.25 catalyses the conversion of 7,8-dihydroneopterin to 6-hydroxymethyl-7,8-dihydropterin in the biosynthetic pathway of tetrahydrofolate.
Dicty_REP	Dictyostelium (Slime Mold) REP protein. This family consists of REP proteins from Dictyostelium (Slime molds). REP protein is likely involved in transcription regulation and control of DNA replication, specifically amplification of plasmid at low copy numbers. The formation of homomultimers may be required for their regulatory activity.
DUF1975	Domain of unknown function (DUF1975). Members of this family of functionally uncharacterised domains are predominantly found in the N-terminal region of various prokaryotic alpha-glucosyltransferases.
DBR1	Lariat debranching enzyme, C-terminal domain. This presumed domain is found at the C-terminus of lariat debranching enzyme. This domain is always found in association with pfam00149.
DUF2275	Predicted integral membrane protein (DUF2275). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins and in the RNA polymerase sigma factor, has no known function.
NrfD	Polysulphide reductase, NrfD. NrfD is an integral transmembrane protein with loops in both the periplasm and the cytoplasm. NrfD is thought to participate in the transfer of electrons, from the quinone pool into the terminal components of the Nrf pathway.
Ribosomal_L33	Ribosomal protein L33. 
Bac_thur_toxin	Bacillus thuringiensis toxin. 
Glyco_hydro_16	Glycosyl hydrolases family 16. 
DUF165	Uncharacterized ACR, YhhQ family COG1738. 
CbiC	Precorrin-8X methylmutase. This is a family Precorrin-8X methylmutases also known as Precorrin isomerase, CbiC/CobH, EC:5.4.1.2. This enzyme catalyses the reaction: Precorrin-8X <=> hydrogenobyrinate. This enzyme is part of the Cobalamin (vitamin B12) biosynthetic pathway and catalyses a methyl rearrangement.
LAGLIDADG_2	LAGLIDADG DNA endonuclease family. This is a family of site-specific DNA endonucleases encoded by DNA mobile elements. Similar to pfam00961, the members of this family are also LAGLIDADG endonucleases.
F_bP_aldolase	Fructose-bisphosphate aldolase class-II. 
CK_II_beta	Casein kinase II regulatory subunit. 
Peptidase_M22	Glycoprotease family. The Peptidase M22 proteins are part of the HSP70-actin superfamily. The region represented here is an insert into the fold and is not found in the rest of the family (beyond the Peptidase M22 family). Included in this family are the Rhizobial NodU proteins and the HypF regulator. This region also contains the histidine dyad believed to coordinate the metal ion and hence provide catalytic activity. Interestingly the histidines are not well conserved, and there is a lack of experimental evidence to support peptidase activity as a general property of this family. There also appear to be instances of this domain outside of the HSP70-actin superfamily.
ESCRT-II	ESCRT-II complex subunit. This family of conserved eukaryotic proteins are subunits of the endosome associated complex ESCRT-II which recruits transport machinery for protein sorting at the multivesicular body (MVB). This protein complex transiently associates with the endosomal membrane and thereby initiates the formation of ESCRT-III, a membrane-associated protein complex that functions immediately downstream of ESCRT-II during sorting of MVB cargo. ESCRT-II in turn functions downstream of ESCRT-I, a protein complex that binds to ubiquitinated endosomal cargo.
DNA_ligase_A_N	DNA ligase N terminus. This region is found in many but not all ATP-dependent DNA ligase enzymes (EC:6.5.1.1). It is thought to be involved in DNA binding and in catalysis. In human DNA ligase I, and in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, this region was necessary for catalysis, and separated from the amino terminus by targeting elements. In vaccinia virus this region was not essential for catalysis, but deletion decreases the affinity for nicked DNA and decreased the rate of strand joining at a step subsequent to enzyme-adenylate formation.
Rpn3_C	Proteasome regulatory subunit C-terminal. This eukaryotic domain is found at the C-terminus of 26S proteasome regulatory subunits such as the non-ATPase Rpn3 subunit which is essential for proteasomal function. It occurs together with the PCI/PINT domain (pfam01399).
CHASE	CHASE domain. This domain is found in the extracellular portion of receptor-like proteins - such as serine/threonine kinases and adenylyl cyclases. Predicted to be a ligand binding domain.
Mt_ATP-synt_B	Mitochondrial ATP synthase B chain precursor (ATP-synt_B). The Fo sector of the ATP synthase is a membrane bound complex which mediates proton transport. It is composed of nine different polypeptide subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g F6, A6L).
Myosin_TH1	Myosin tail. 
RBM1CTR	RBM1CTR (NUC064) family. This C-terminal region is found in RBM1-like RNA binding hnRNPs.
Abhydro_lipase	ab-hydrolase associated lipase region. 
Pro_isomerase	Cyclophilin type peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase/CLD. The peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases, also known as cyclophilins, share this domain of about 109 amino acids. Cyclophilins have been found in all organisms studied so far and catalyse peptidyl-prolyl isomerisation during which the peptide bond preceding proline (the peptidyl-prolyl bond) is stabilised in the cis conformation. Mammalian cyclophilin A (CypA) is a major cellular target for the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A (CsA). Other roles for cyclophilins may include chaperone and cell signalling function.
DUF500	Family of unknown function (DUF500). Proteins in this family often also contain an SH3 domain (pfam00018), or a FYVE zinc finger (pfam01363).
PsaL	Photosystem I reaction centre subunit XI. This family consists of the photosystem I reaction centre subunit XI, PsaL, from plants and bacteria. PsaL is one of the smaller subunits in photosystem I with only two transmembrane alpha helices and interacts closely with PsaI.
hATC	hAT family dimerisation domain. This dimerisation domain is found at the C terminus of the transposases of elements belonging to the Activator superfamily (hAT element superfamily). The isolated dimerisation domain forms extremely stable dimers in vitro.
RuBisCO_large_N	Ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase large chain, N-terminal domain. The N-terminal domain of RuBisCO large chain adopts a ferredoxin-like fold.
Sulfotransfer_1	Sulfotransferase domain. 
DFP	DNA / pantothenate metabolism flavoprotein. The DNA/pantothenate metabolism flavoprotein (EC:4.1.1.36) affects synthesis of DNA, and pantothenate metabolism.
DUF260	Protein of unknown function DUF260. 
Fe_hyd_lg_C	Iron only hydrogenase large subunit, C-terminal domain. 
COX2	Cytochrome C oxidase subunit II, periplasmic domain. 
Chlorophyllase	Chlorophyllase. This family consists of several plant specific Chlorophyllase proteins (EC:3.1.1.14). Chlorophyllase (Chlase) is the first enzyme involved in chlorophyll (Chl) degradation and catalyses the hydrolysis of ester bond to yield chlorophyllide and phytol.
DUF2224	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2224). The proteins in this highly conserved family are found from worms to humans. the function is unknown.
TelA	Toxic anion resistance protein (TelA). This family consists of several prokaryotic TelA like proteins. TelA and KlA are associated with tellurite resistance and plasmid fertility inhibition.
Chorion_1	Chorion protein. This family consists of the chorion superfamily proteins classes A, B, CA, CB and high-cysteine HCB from silk, gypsy and polyphemus moths. The chorion proteins make up the moths egg shell a complex extracellular structure.
Nop53	Nop53 (60S ribosomal biogenesis). This nucleolar family of proteins are involved in 60S ribosomal biogenesis. They are specifically involved in the processing beyond the 27S stage of 25S rRNA maturation. This family contains sequences that bear similarity to the glioma tumour suppressor candidate region gene 2 protein (p60). This protein has been found to interact with herpes simplex type 1 regulatory proteins.
FAA_hydrolase	Fumarylacetoacetate (FAA) hydrolase family. This family consists of fumarylacetoacetate (FAA) hydrolase, or fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (FAH) and it also includes HHDD isomerase/OPET decarboxylase from Escherichia coli strain W. FAA is the last enzyme in the tyrosine catabolic pathway, it hydrolyses fumarylacetoacetate into fumarate and acetoacetate which then join the citric acid cycle. Mutations in FAA cause type I tyrosinemia in humans this is an inherited disorder mainly affecting the liver leading to liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, renal tubular damages and neurologic crises amongst other symptoms. The enzymatic defect causes the toxic accumulation of phenylalanine/tyrosine catabolites. The Escherichia coli W enzyme HHDD isomerase/OPET decarboxylase contains two copies of this domain and functions in fourth and fifth steps of the homoprotocatechuate pathway; here it decarboxylates OPET to HHDD and isomerises this to OHED. The final products of this pathway are pyruvic acid and succinic semialdehyde. This family also includes various hydratases and 4-oxalocrotonate decarboxylases which are involved in the bacterial meta-cleavage pathways for degradation of aromatic compounds. 2-hydroxypentadienoic acid hydratase encoded by mhpD in Escherichia coli is involved in the phenylpropionic acid pathway of Escherichia coli and catalyses the conversion of 2-hydroxy pentadienoate to 4-hydroxy-2-keto-pentanoate and uses a Mn2+ co-factor. OHED hydratase encoded by hpcG in Escherichia coli is involved in the homoprotocatechuic acid (HPC) catabolism. XylI in P. putida is a 4-Oxalocrotonate decarboxylase.
DUF1162	Protein of unknown function (DUF1162). This family represents a conserved region within several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins. Family members might be vacuolar protein sorting related-proteins.
AOX	Alternative oxidase. The alternative oxidase is used as a second terminal oxidase in the mitochondria, electrons are transfered directly from reduced ubiquinol to oxygen forming water. This is not coupled to ATP synthesis and is not inhibited by cyanide, this pathway is a single step process. In rice the transcript levels of the alternative oxidase are increased by low temperature.
Ribosomal_L38e	Ribosomal L38e protein family. 
Phosducin	Phosducin. 
Iron_permease	Low affinity iron permease. 
SF3b1	Splicing factor 3B subunit 1. This family consists of several eukaryotic splicing factor 3B subunit 1 proteins, which associate with p14 through a C-terminus beta-strand that interacts with beta-3 of the p14 RNA recognition motif (RRM) beta-sheet, which is in turn connected to an alpha-helix by a loop that makes extensive contacts with both the shorter C-terminal helix and RRM of p14. This subunit is required for 'A' splicing complex assembly (formed by the stable binding of U2 snRNP to the branchpoint sequence in pre-mRNA) and 'E' splicing complex assembly.
ADH_zinc_N	Zinc-binding dehydrogenase. 
SPT2	SPT2 chromatin protein. This family includes the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein SPT2 which is a chromatin protein involved in transcriptional regulation.
Dna2	DNA replication factor Dna2. Dna2 is a DNA replication factor with single-stranded DNA-dependent ATPase, ATP-dependent nuclease, ( 5'-flap endonuclease) and helicase activities. It is required for Okazaki fragment processing and is involved in DNA repair pathways.
UPF0220	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0220). This family of proteins is functionally uncharacterised.
Prominin	Prominin. The prominins are an emerging family of proteins that among the multispan membrane proteins display a novel topology. Mouse prominin and human prominin (mouse)-like 1 (PROML1) are predicted to contain five membrane spanning domains, with an N-terminal domain exposed to the extracellular space followed by four, alternating small cytoplasmic and large extracellular, loops and a cytoplasmic C-terminal domain. The exact function of prominin is unknown although in humans defects in PROM1, the gene coding for prominin, cause retinal degeneration.
HRDC	HRDC domain. The HRDC (Helicase and RNase D C-terminal) domain has a putative role in nucleic acid binding. Mutations in the HRDC domain cause human disease. It is interesting to note that the RecQ helicase in Deinococcus radiodurans has three tandem HRDC domains.
IU_nuc_hydro	Inosine-uridine preferring nucleoside hydrolase. 
TraB	TraB family. pAD1 is a hemolysin/bacteriocin plasmid originally identified in Enterococcus faecalis DS16. It encodes a mating response to a peptide sex pheromone, cAD1, secreted by recipient bacteria. Once the plasmid pAD1 is acquired, production of the pheromone ceases - a trait related in part to a determinant designated traB. However a related protein is found in Caenorhabditis elegans, suggesting that members of the TraB family have some more general function.
Elf1	Transcription elongation factor Elf1 like. This family of short proteins contains a putative zinc binding domain with four conserved cysteines. Elf1 has been identified as a transcription elongation factor in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
tRNA-synt_1d	tRNA synthetases class I (R). Other tRNA synthetase sub-families are too dissimilar to be included. This family includes only arginyl tRNA synthetase.
SCF	Stem cell factor. Stem cell factor (SCF) is a homodimer involved in hematopoiesis. SCF binds to and activates the SCF receptor (SCFR), a receptor tyrosine kinase. The crystal structure of human SCF has been resolved and a potential receptor-binding site identified.
Glycos_transf_N	3-Deoxy-D-manno-octulosonic-acid transferase (kdotransferase). Members of this family transfer activated sugars to a variety of substrates, including glycogen, fructose-6-phosphate and lipopolysaccharides. Members of the family transfer UDP, ADP, GDP or CMP linked sugars. The Glycos_transf_N region is flanked at the N-terminus by a signal peptide and at the C-terminus by Glycos_transf_1 (pfam00534). The eukaryotic glycogen synthases may be distant members of this bacterial family.
TBC	TBC domain. Identification of a TBC domain in GYP6_YEAST and GYP7_YEAST, which are GTPase activator proteins of yeast Ypt6 and Ypt7, imply that these domains are GTPase activator proteins of Rab-like small GTPases.
ATG27	Autophagy-related protein 27. 
DUF1614	Protein of unknown function (DUF1614). This is a family of sequences coming from hypothetical proteins found in both bacterial and archaeal species.
DUF604	Protein of unknown function, DUF604. This family includes a conserved region found in several uncharacterised plant proteins.
Pox_O1	Pox virus protein O1. The function of these viral proteins is not known.
DUF519	Protein of unknown function (DUF519). Bacterial family of unknown function, possibly secreted.
Topo-VIb_trans	Topoisomerase VI B subunit, transducer. Members of this family adopt a structure consisting of a four-stranded beta-sheet backed by three alpha-helices, the last of which is over 50 amino acids long and extends from the body of the protein by several turns. This domain has been proposed to mediate intersubunit communication by structurally transducing signals from the ATP binding and hydrolysis domains to the DNA binding and cleavage domains of the gyrase holoenzyme.
FAD_binding_6	Oxidoreductase FAD-binding domain. 
ASFV_J13L	African swine fever virus J13L protein. This family consists of several African swine fever virus J13L proteins.
UPF0546	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0546. This family of proteins has no known function. Many members are annotated as potential transmembrane proteins.
ATG16	Autophagy protein 16 (ATG16). Autophagy is a ubiquitous intracellular degradation system for eukaryotic cells. During autophagy, cytoplasmic components are enclosed in autophagosomes and delivered to lysosomes/vacuoles. ATG16 (also known as Apg16) has been shown to be bind to Apg5 and is required for the function of the Apg12p-Apg5p conjugate in the yeast autophagy pathway.
Trp_halogenase	Tryptophan halogenase. Tryptophan halogenase catalyses the chlorination of tryptophan to form 7-chlorotryptophan. This is the first step in the biosynthesis of pyrrolnitrin, an antibiotic with broad-spectrum anti-fungal activity. Tryptophan halogenase is NADH-dependent.
PRMT5	PRMT5 arginine-N-methyltransferase. The human homologue of yeast Skb1 (Shk1 kinase-binding protein 1) is PRMT5, an arginine-N-methyltransferase. These proteins appear to be key mitotic regulators. They play a role in Jak signalling in higher eukaryotes.
Cytokin-bind	Cytokinin dehydrogenase 1, FAD and cytokinin binding. Members of this family adopt an alpha+beta sandwich structure with an antiparallel beta-sheet, in a ferredoxin-like fold. They are predominantly found in plant cytokinin dehydrogenase 1, where they are capable of binding both FAD and cytokinin substrates. The substrate displays a 'plug-into-socket' binding mode that seals the catalytic site and precisely positions the carbon atom undergoing oxidation in close contact with the reactive locus of the flavin.
tRNA_m1G_MT	tRNA (Guanine-1)-methyltransferase. This is a family of tRNA (Guanine-1)-methyltransferases EC:2.1.1.31. In E.coli K12 this enzyme catalyses the conversion of a guanosine residue to N1-methylguanine in position 37, next to the anticodon, in tRNA.
NatB_MDM20	N-acetyltransferase B complex (NatB) non catalytic subunit. This is the non-catalytic subunit of the N-terminal acetyltransferase B complex (NatB). The NatB complex catalyses the acetylation of the amino-terminal methionine residue of all proteins beginning with Met-Asp or Met-Glu and of some proteins beginning with Met-Asn or Met-Met. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae this subunit is called MDM20 and in Schizosaccharomyces pombe it is called Arm1. NatB acetylates the Tpm1 protein and regulates and tropomyocin-actin interactions. This subunit is required by the NatB complex for the N-terminal acetylation of Tpm1.
Bromodomain	Bromodomain. Bromodomains are 110 amino acid long domains, that are found in many chromatin associated proteins. Bromodomains can interact specifically with acetylated lysine.
ELF	ELF protein. This is a family of hypothetical proteins from cereal crops.
CRAL_TRIO	CRAL/TRIO domain. The original profile has been extended to include the carboxyl domain from the known structure of Sec14.
HMA	Heavy-metal-associated domain. 
Usp	Universal stress protein family. The universal stress protein UspA is a small cytoplasmic bacterial protein whose expression is enhanced when the cell is exposed to stress agents. UspA enhances the rate of cell survival during prolonged exposure to such conditions, and may provide a general "stress endurance" activity. The crystal structure of Haemophilus influenzae UspA reveals an alpha/beta fold similar to that of the Methanococcus jannaschii MJ0577 protein, which binds ATP, though UspA lacks ATP-binding activity.
UPF0126	UPF0126 domain. Domain always found as pair in bacterial membrane proteins of unknown function. This domain contains three transmembrane helices. The conserved glycines are suggestive of an ion channel (C. Yeats unpublished obs.).
zf-AN1	AN1-like Zinc finger. Zinc finger at the C-terminus of An1, a ubiquitin-like protein in Xenopus laevis. The following pattern describes the zinc finger. C-X2-C-X(9-12)-C-X(1-2)-C-X4-C-X2-H-X5-H-X-C Where X can be any amino acid, and numbers in brackets indicate the number of residues.
La	La domain. This presumed domain is found at the N-terminus of La RNA-binding proteins as well as other proteins. The function of this region is uncertain.
Glyco_hydro_38C	Glycosyl hydrolases family 38 C-terminal domain. Glycosyl hydrolases are key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism.
Menin	Menin. MEN1, the gene responsible for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1, is a tumour suppressor gene that encodes a protein called Menin which may be an atypical GTPase stimulated by nm23.
UreD	UreD urease accessory protein. UreD is a urease accessory protein. Urease pfam00449 hydrolyses urea into ammonia and carbamic acid. UreD is involved in activation of the urease enzyme via the UreD-UreF-UreG-urease complex and is required for urease nickel metallocenter assembly. See also UreF pfam01730, UreG pfam01495.
DUF582	Protein of unknown function, DUF582. This family contains several uncharacterised chlamydial proteins.
Cu-oxidase_3	Multicopper oxidase. This entry contains many divergent copper oxidase-like domains that are not recognised by the pfam00394 model.
Cu_bind_like	Plastocyanin-like domain. This family represents a domain found in flowering plants related to the copper binding protein plastocyanin. Some members of this family may not bind copper due to the lack of key residues.
NPIP	Nuclear pore complex interacting protein (NPIP). This family consists of a series of primate specific nuclear pore complex interacting protein (NPIP) sequences. The function of this family is unknown but is well conserved from African apes to humans.
DUF736	Protein of unknown function (DUF736). This family consists of several uncharacterised bacterial proteins of unknown function.
PK_C	Pyruvate kinase, alpha/beta domain. 
DUF423	Protein of unknown function (DUF423). Potential integral membrane protein.
Lactate_perm	L-lactate permease. L-lactate permease is an integral membrane protein probably involved in L-lactate transport.
zf-LSD1	LSD1 zinc finger. This family consists of several plant specific LSD1 zinc finger domains. Arabidopsis lsd1 mutants are hyper-responsive to cell death initiators and fail to limit the extent of cell death. Superoxide is a necessary and sufficient signal for cell death propagation. LSD1 monitors a superoxide-dependent signal and negatively regulates a plant cell death pathway. LSD1 protein contains three zinc finger domains, defined by CxxCxRxxLMYxxGASxVxCxxC. It has been suggested that LSD1 defines a zinc finger protein subclass and that LSD1 regulates transcription, via either repression of a pro-death pathway or activation of an anti-death pathway, in response to signals emanating from cells undergoing pathogen-induced hypersensitive cell death.
RTC	RNA 3'-terminal phosphate cyclase. RNA cyclases are a family of RNA-modifying enzymes that are conserved in all cellular organisms. They catalyse the ATP-dependent conversion of the 3'-phosphate to the 2',3'-cyclic phosphodiester at the end of RNA, in a reaction involving formation of the covalent AMP-cyclase intermediate. The structure of RTC demonstrates that RTCs are comprised two domain. The larger domain contains an insert domain of approximately 100 amino acids.
DUF1242	Protein of unknown function (DUF1242). This family consists of a number of eukaryotic proteins of around 72 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
FAP	Fibronectin-attachment protein (FAP). This family contains bacterial fibronectin-attachment proteins (FAP). Family members are rich in alanine and proline, are approximately 300 long, and seem to be restricted to mycobacteria. These proteins contain a fibronectin-binding motif that allows mycobacteria to bind to fibronectin in the extracellular matrix.
GspK	General secretion pathway protein K. Members of this family are involved in the general secretion pathway. The family includes proteins such as ExeK, PulK, OutX and XcpX.
PI31_Prot_Reg	PI31 proteasome regulator. PI31 is a cellular regulator of proteasome formation and of proteasome-mediated antigen processing.
HpcH_HpaI	HpcH/HpaI aldolase/citrate lyase family. This family includes 2,4-dihydroxyhept-2-ene-1,7-dioic acid aldolase and 4-hydroxy-2-oxovalerate aldolase.
Reo_sigmaC	Reovirus sigma C capsid protein. 
Hyccin	Hyccin. Members of this family of proteins may have a role in the beta-catenin-Tcf/Lef signaling pathway, as well as in the process of myelination of the central and peripheral nervous system. Defects in Hyccin are the cause of hypomyelination with congenital cataracts [OMIM: 610532]. This disorder is characterised by congenital cataracts, progressive neurologic impairment, and diffuse myelin deficiency. Affected individuals experience progressive pyramidal and cerebellar dysfunction, muscle weakness and wasting prevailing in the lower limbs.
PsbJ	PsbJ. This family consists of the photosystem II reaction centre protein PsbJ from plants and Cyanobacteria. In Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 PsbJ regulates the number of photosystem II centres in thylakoid membranes, it is a predicted 4kDa protein with one membrane spanning domain.
DUF705	Protein of unknown function (DUF705). This family contains several uncharacterised Baculovirus proteins.
Acyl_transf_1	Acyl transferase domain. 
DUF1468	Protein of unknown function (DUF1468). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 150 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
Ion_trans_2	Ion channel. This family includes the two membrane helix type ion channels found in bacteria.
GalP_UDP_transf	Galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase, N-terminal domain. SCOP reports fold duplication with C-terminal domain. Both involved in Zn and Fe binding.
Complex1_51K	Respiratory-chain NADH dehydrogenase 51 Kd subunit. 
BAT2_N	BAT2 N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminus (approximately 200 residues) of the proline-rich protein BAT2. BAT2 is similar to other proteins with large proline-rich domains, such as some nuclear proteins, collagens, elastin, and synapsin.
WAC_Acf1_DNA_bd	ATP-utilising chromatin assembly and remodelling N-terminal. ACF (for ATP-utilising chromatin assembly and remodelling factor) is a chromatin-remodelling complex that catalyses the ATP-dependent assembly of periodic nucleosome arrays. The WAC (WSTF/Acf1/cbp146) domain is an approximately 110-residue module present at the N-termini of Acf1-related proteins in a variety of organisms. The DNA-binding region of Acf1 includes the WAC domain, which is necessary for the efficient binding of ACF complex to DNA.
Endomucin	Endomucin. This family consists of several mammalian endomucin proteins. Endomucin is an early endothelial-specific antigen that is also expressed on putative hematopoietic progenitor cells.
Phytochelatin	Phytochelatin synthase. Phytochelatin synthase is the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of heavy-metal-binding peptides (phytochelatins) from glutathione and related thiols. The crystal structure of a member of this family shows it to possess a papain fold. The enzyme catalyses the deglycination of a GSH donor molecule. The enzyme contains a catalytic triad of cysteine, histidine and aspartate residues.
XPG_N	XPG N-terminal domain. 
DUF663	Protein of unknown function (DUF663). This family contains several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
FTHFS	Formate-tetrahydrofolate ligase. 
DUF2450	Protein of unknown function N-terminal domain (DUF2450). This protein is found in eukaryotes but its function is not known. The C-terminal part of some members is DUF2451.
Thaumatin	Thaumatin family. 
Ligase_CoA	CoA-ligase. This family includes the CoA ligases Succinyl-CoA synthetase alpha and beta chains, malate CoA ligase and ATP-citrate lyase. Some members of the family utilise ATP others use GTP.
eIF3_subunit	Translation initiation factor eIF3 subunit. This is a family of proteins which are subunits of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3). In yeast it is called Hcr1. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein eIF3j has been shown to be required for processing of 20S pre-rRNA and binds to 18S rRNA and eIF3 subunits Rpg1p and Prt1p.
B3	B3 DNA binding domain. This is a family of plant transcription factors with various roles in development, the aligned region corresponds the B3 DNA binding domain as described in this domain is found in VP1/AB13 transcription factors. Some proteins also have a second AP2 DNA binding domain pfam00847 such as RAV1. DNA binding activity was demonstrated.
US22	US22 like. This is the US22 protein family of hypothetical proteins from herpes virus. The name sake of this family US22 is an early nuclear protein that is secreted from cells. The US22 family may have a role in virus replication and pathogenesis.
Filamin	Filamin/ABP280 repeat. 
HTH_IclR	IclR helix-turn-helix domain. 
Cas1p	Cas1p-like protein. The members of this family are sequences that are similar to a region of Cas1p protein. This is an O-acetyltransferase that in Cryptococcus neoformans was shown to be required for O-acetylation of its capsular polysaccharide. The capsule is this organism's most obvious virulence factor.
Bmp	Basic membrane protein. This is a family of basic membrane lipoproteins form Borrelia and various putative lipoproteins form other bacteria. All of these proteins are outer membrane proteins and are thus antigenic in nature when possessed by the pathogenic members of the family. One protein, Bacillus subtilis med, is a transcriptional activator.
Gaa1	Gaa1-like, GPI transamidase component. GPI (glycosyl phosphatidyl inositol) transamidase is a multi-protein complex. Gpi16, Gpi8 and Gaa1 for a sub-complex of the GPI transamidase. GPI transamidase that adds glycosylphosphatidylinositols (GPIs) to newly synthesised proteins.
EF1_GNE	EF-1 guanine nucleotide exchange domain. This family is the guanine nucleotide exchange domain of EF-1 beta and EF-1 delta chains.
UPF0172	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0172). 
MinE	Septum formation topological specificity factor MinE. The Escherichia coli minicell locus was shown to code for three gene products (MinC, MinD, and MinE) whose coordinate action is required for proper placement of the division septum. The minE gene codes for a topological specificity factor that, in wild-type cells, prevents the division inhibitor from acting at internal division sites while permitting it to block septation at polar sites.
RBD-FIP	FIP domain. The FIP domain is the Rab11-binding domain (RBD) at the C-terminus of a family of Rab11-interacting proteins (FIPs). The Rab proteins constitute the largest family of small GTPases (>60 members in mammals). Among them Rab11 is a well characterised regulator of endocytic and recycling pathways. Rab11 associates with a broad range of post-Golgi organelles, including recycling endosomes.
HhH-GPD	HhH-GPD superfamily base excision DNA repair protein. This family contains a diverse range of structurally related DNA repair proteins. The superfamily is called the HhH-GPD family after its hallmark Helix-hairpin-helix and Gly/Pro rich loop followed by a conserved aspartate. This includes endonuclease III, EC:4.2.99.18 and MutY an A/G-specific adenine glycosylase, both have a C terminal 4Fe-4S cluster. The family also includes 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylases. The methyl-CPG binding protein MBD4 also contains a related domain that is a thymine DNA glycosylase. The family also includes DNA-3-methyladenine glycosylase II EC:3.2.2.21 and other members of the AlkA family.
GSK-3_bind	Glycogen synthase kinase-3 binding. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) sequentially phosphorylates four serine residues on glycogen synthase (GS), in the sequence SxxxSxxxSxxx-SxxxS(p), by recognising and phosphorylating the first serine in the sequence motif SxxxS(P) (where S(p) represents a phosphoserine). Interaction of GSK-3 with a peptide derived from GSK-3 binding protein (this family) prevents GSK-3 interaction with Axin. This interaction thereby inhibits the Axin-dependent phosphorylation of beta-catenin by GSK-3.
DUF1034	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF1034). This family consists of several domains of unknown function which are present in several bacterial and plant peptidases. This domain is found in conjunction with pfam00082, pfam02225 and is often found with pfam00746.
DUF1230	Protein of unknown function (DUF1230). This family consists of several hypothetical plant and photosynthetic bacterial proteins of around 160 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown although looking at the species distribution the protein may play a part in photosynthesis.
NADHdh	NADH dehydrogenase. 
AICARFT_IMPCHas	AICARFT/IMPCHase bienzyme. This is a family of bifunctional enzymes catalysing the last two steps in de novo purine biosynthesis. The bifunctional enzyme is found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The second last step is catalysed by 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase EC:2.1.2.3 (AICARFT), this enzyme catalyses the formylation of AICAR with 10-formyl-tetrahydrofolate to yield FAICAR and tetrahydrofolate. The last step is catalysed by IMP (Inosine monophosphate) cyclohydrolase EC:3.5.4.10 (IMPCHase), cyclizing FAICAR (5-formylaminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide) to IMP.
Heme_oxygenase	Heme oxygenase. 
Hema_esterase	Hemagglutinin esterase. 
Ferric_reduct	Ferric reductase like transmembrane component. This family includes a common region in the transmembrane proteins mammalian cytochrome B-245 heavy chain (gp91-phox), ferric reductase transmembrane component in yeast and respiratory burst oxidase from mouse-ear cress. This may be a family of flavocytochromes capable of moving electrons across the plasma membrane. The Frp1 protein from S. pombe is a ferric reductase component and is required for cell surface ferric reductase activity, mutants in frp1 are deficient in ferric iron uptake. Cytochrome B-245 heavy chain is a FAD-dependent dehydrogenase it is also has electron transferase activity which reduces molecular oxygen to superoxide anion, a precursor in the production of microbicidal oxidants. Mutations in the sequence of cytochrome B-245 heavy chain (gp91-phox) lead to the X-linked chronic granulomatous disease. The bacteriocidal ability of phagocytic cells is reduced and is characterised by the absence of a functional plasma membrane associated NADPH oxidase. The chronic granulomatous disease gene codes for the beta chain of cytochrome B-245 and cytochrome B-245 is missing from patients with the disease.
UPF0565	Uncharacterised protein family UPF0565. This family of proteins has no known function.
Taxilin	Myosin-like coiled-coil protein. Taxilin contains an extraordinarily long coiled-coil domain in its C-terminal half and is ubiquitously expressed. It is a novel binding partner of several syntaxin family members and is possibly involved in Ca2+-dependent exocytosis in neuroendocrine cells. Gamma-taxilin, described as leucine zipper protein Factor Inhibiting ATF4-mediated Transcription (FIAT), localises to the nucleus in osteoblasts and dimerises with ATF4 to form inactive dimers, thus inhibiting ATF4-mediated transcription.
DUF647	Protein of unknown function, DUF647. 
Elongin_A	RNA polymerase II transcription factor SIII (Elongin) subunit A. This family represents a conserved region within RNA polymerase II transcription factor SIII (Elongin) subunit A. In mammals, the Elongin complex activates elongation by RNA polymerase II by suppressing transient pausing of the polymerase at many sites within transcription units. Elongin is a heterotrimer composed of A, B, and C subunits of 110, 18, and 15 kilodaltons, respectively. Subunit A has been shown to function as the transcriptionally active component of Elongin.
IgG_binding_B	B domain. This domain is found as a tandem repeat in Streptococcal cell surface proteins, such as the IgG binding protein G.
DUF632	Protein of unknown function (DUF632). This plant protein may be a leucine zipper, but there is no experimental evidence for this.
Josephin	Josephin. 
zf-HIT	HIT zinc finger. This presumed zinc finger contains up to 6 cysteine residues that could coordinate zinc. The domain is named after the HIT protein. This domain is also found in the Thyroid receptor interacting protein 3 (TRIP-3) that specifically interact with the ligand binding domain of the thyroid receptor.
BicD	Microtubule-associated protein Bicaudal-D. BicD proteins consist of three coiled-coiled domains and are involved in dynein-mediated minus end-directed transport from the Golgi apparatus to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). For full functioning they bind with GSK-3beta pfam05350 to maintain the anchoring of microtubules to the centromere. It appears that amino-acid residues 437-617 of BicD and the kinase activity of GSK-3 are necessary for the formation of a complex between BicD and GSK-3beta in intact cells.
HemS	Haemin-degrading family. The Yersinia enterocolitica O:8 periplasmic binding-protein- dependent transport system consisted of four proteins: the periplasmic haemin-binding protein HemT, the haemin permease protein HemU, the ATP-binding hydrophilic protein HemV and the haemin-degrading protein HemS (this family).
PP-binding	Phosphopantetheine attachment site. A 4'-phosphopantetheine prosthetic group is attached through a serine. This prosthetic group acts as a a 'swinging arm' for the attachment of activated fatty acid and amino-acid groups. This domain forms a four helix bundle. This family includes members not included in Prosite. The inclusion of these members is supported by sequence analysis and functional evidence. The related domain of Listonella anguillarum angR has the attachment serine replaced by an alanine.
OpgC_C	OpgC protein, C terminal domain. This domain, found in various hypothetical and OpgC prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
TMPIT	TMPIT-like protein. A number of members of this family are annotated as being transmembrane proteins induced by tumour necrosis factor alpha, but no literature was found to support this.
IPK	Inositol polyphosphate kinase. ArgRIII has has been demonstrated to be an inositol polyphosphate kinase.
Amidase_3	N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidase. This enzyme domain cleaves the amide bond between N-acetylmuramoyl and L-amino acids in bacterial cell walls.
Diacid_rec	Putative sugar diacid recognition. This region is found in several proteins characterised as carbohydrate diacid regulators. An HTH DNA-binding motif is found at the C-terminus of these proteins suggesting that this region includes the sugar recognition region.
SOUL	SOUL heme-binding protein. This family represents a group of putative heme-binding proteins. Our family includes archaeal and bacterial homologues.
REF	Rubber elongation factor protein (REF). This family consists of the highly related rubber elongation factor (REF), small rubber particle protein (SRPP) and stress-related protein (SRP) sequences. REF and SRPP are released from the rubber particle membrane into the cytosol during osmotic lysis of the sedimentable organelles (lutoids). The exact function of this family is unknown.
CBFD_NFYB_HMF	Histone-like transcription factor (CBF/NF-Y) and archaeal histone. This family includes archaebacterial histones and histone like transcription factors from eukaryotes.
CPSase_L_D3	Carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase large chain, oligomerisation domain. Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase catalyses the ATP-dependent synthesis of carbamyl-phosphate from glutamine or ammonia and bicarbonate. The carbamoyl-phosphate synthase (CPS) enzyme in prokaryotes is a heterodimer of a small and large chain.
ASC	Amiloride-sensitive sodium channel. 
PFK	Phosphofructokinase. 
tRNA_synt_2f	Glycyl-tRNA synthetase beta subunit. 
Peptidase_S41	Peptidase family S41. 
Glyco_transf_43	Glycosyltransferase family 43. 
Tex_N	Tex-like protein N-terminal domain. This presumed domain is found at the N-terminus of protein tex from Bordetella pertussis. This protein defines a novel family of prokaryotic transcriptional accessory factors.
UBA_e1_C	Ubiquitin-activating enzyme e1 C-terminal domain. This presumed domain found at the C-terminus of Ubiquitin-activating enzyme e1 proteins is functionally uncharacterised.
PIGA	PIGA (GPI anchor biosynthesis). This domain is found on phosphatidylinositol n-acetylglucosaminyltransferase proteins. These proteins are involved in GPI anchor biosynthesis and are associated with disease the paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria.
DUF789	Protein of unknown function (DUF789). This family consists of several plant proteins of unknown function.
FA_synthesis	Fatty acid synthesis protein. The plsX gene is part of the bacterial fab gene cluster which encodes several key fatty acid biosynthetic enzymes. The exact function of the plsX protein in fatty acid synthesis is unknown.
PsbR	Photosystem II 10 kDa polypeptide PsbR. This protein is associated with the oxygen-evolving complex of photosystem II. Its function in photosynthesis is not known. The C-terminal hydrophobic region functions as a thylakoid transfer signal but is not removed.
zf-DNA_Pol	DNA Polymerase alpha zinc finger. The DNA Polymerase alpha zinc finger domain adopts an alpha-helix-like structure, followed by three turns, all of which involve proline. The resulting motif is a helix-turn-helix motif, in contrast to other zinc finger domains, which show anti-parallel sheet and helix conformation. Zinc binding occurs due to the presence of four cysteine residues positioned to bind the metal centre in a tetrahedral coordination geometry. Function of this domain is uncertain: it has been proposed that the zinc finger motif may be an essential part of the DNA binding domain.
UPF0014	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0014). 
HHH	Helix-hairpin-helix motif. The helix-hairpin-helix DNA-binding motif is found to be duplicated in the central domain of RuvA.
SIP	Siderophore-interacting protein. 
Tuberin	Tuberin. Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder and is characterised by the presence of hamartomas in many organs, such as brain, skin, heart, lung, and kidney. It is caused by mutation either TSC1 or TSC2 tumour suppressor gene. The TSC2 gene codes for tuberin and interacts with hamartin pfam04388, containing two coiled-coil regions, which have been shown to mediate binding to tuberin. These two proteins function within the same pathway(s) regulating cell cycle, cell growth, adhesion, and vesicular trafficking.
7TM_GPCR_Srw	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srw. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srw is a solo family amongst the superfamilies of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'. The genes encoding Srw do not appear to be under as strong an adaptive evolutionary pressure as those of Srz.
FYRC	F/Y rich C-terminus. This region is normally found in the trithorax/ALL1 family proteins. It is similar to SMART:SM00542.
Cytochrom_C	Cytochrome c. The Pfam entry does not include all Prosite members. The cytochrome 556 and cytochrome c' families are not included.
MEKHLA	MEKHLA domain. The MEKHLA domain shares similarity with the PAS domain and is found in the 3' end of plant HD-ZIP III homeobox genes, and bacterial proteins.
Peptidase_C26	Peptidase C26. These peptidases have gamma-glutamyl hydrolase activity; that is they catalyse the cleavage of the gamma-glutamyl bond in poly-gamma-glutamyl substrates. They are structurally related to pfam00117, but contain extensions in four loops and at the C terminus.
Zeta_toxin	Zeta toxin. This family consists of several bacterial zeta toxin proteins. Zeta toxin is thought to be part of a postregulational killing system in bacteria. It relies on antitoxin/toxin systems that secure stable inheritance of low and medium copy number plasmids during cell division and kill cells that have lost the plasmid.
Prox1	Homeobox prospero-like protein (PROX1). The homeobox gene Prox1 is expressed in a subpopulation of endothelial cells that, after budding from veins, gives rise to the mammalian lymphatic system. Prox1 has been found to be an early specific marker for the developing liver and pancreas in the mammalian foregut endoderm. This family contains an atypical homeobox domain.
Peptidase_M23	Peptidase family M23. Members of this family are zinc metallopeptidases with a range of specificities. The peptidase family M23 is included in this family, these are Gly-Gly endopeptidases. Peptidase family M23 are also endopeptidases. This family also includes some bacterial lipoproteins for which no proteolytic activity has been demonstrated. This family also includes leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2 (LECT2) proteins. LECT2 is a liver-specific protein which is thought to be linked to hepatocyte growth although the exact function of this protein is unknown.
Glyco_hydro_81	Glycosyl hydrolase family 81. Family of eukaryotic beta-1,3-glucanases.
zf-Dof	Dof domain, zinc finger. The Dof domain is a zinc finger DNA-binding domain, that shows resemblance to the Cys2 zinc finger.
Allene_ox_cyc	Allene oxide cyclase. This family consists of several plant specific allene oxide cyclase proteins (EC:5.3.99.6). The allene oxide cyclase (AOC)-catalysed step in jasmonate (JA) biosynthesis is important in the wound response of tomato.
DUF749	Domain of unknown function (DUF749). Archaeal domain of unknown function. This domain has been solved as part of a structural genomics project and comprises of segregated helical and anti-parallel beta sheet regions.
AIG1	AIG1 family. Arabidopsis protein AIG1 appears to be involved in plant resistance to bacteria.
DUF2397	Protein of unknown function (DUF2397). Proteins in this entry are encoded within a conserved gene four-gene neighbourhood found sporadically in a phylogenetically broad range of bacteria including: Nocardia farcinica, Symbiobacterium thermophilum, and Streptomyces avermitilis (Actinobacteria), Geobacillus kaustophilus (Firmicutes), Azoarcus sp. EbN1 and Ralstonia solanacearum (Betaproteobacteria).
DUF1646	Protein of unknown function (DUF1646). Some of the members of this family are hypothetical bacterial and archaeal proteins, but others are annotated as being cation transporters expressed by the archaebacterium Methanosarcina mazei.
Lentiviral_Tat	Lentiviral Tat protein. This family contains retroviral transactivating (Tat) proteins, from a variety of Lentiviruses.
TPR_1	Tetratricopeptide repeat. 
ENT	ENT domain. This presumed domain is named after Emsy N Terminus (ENT). Emsy is a protein that is amplified in breast cancer and interacts with BRCA2. The N terminus of this protein is found to be similar to other vertebrate and plant proteins of unknown function. This domain has a completely conserved histidine residue that may be functionally important.
Pectinesterase	Pectinesterase. 
YopD	YopD protein. This family consists of several bacterial YopD like proteins. Virulent Yersinia species harbour a common plasmid that encodes essential virulence determinants (Yersinia outer proteins [Yops]), which are regulated by the extracellular stimuli Ca2+ and temperature. YopD is thought to be a possible transmembrane protein and contains an amphipathic alpha-helix in its carboxy terminus.
MEA1	Male enhanced antigen 1 (MEA1). This family consists of several mammalian male enhanced antigen 1 (MEA1) proteins. The Mea-1 gene is found to be localised in primary and secondary spermatocytes and spermatids, but the protein products are detected only in spermatids. Intensive transcription of Mea-1 gene and specific localisation of the gene product suggest that Mea-1 may play a important role in the late stage of spermatogenesis.
GalKase_gal_bdg	Galactokinase galactose-binding signature. This is the highly conserved galactokinase signature sequence which appears to be present in all galactokinases irrespective of how many other ATP binding sites, etc that they carry. The function of this domain appears to be to bind galactose, and the domain is normally at the N-terminus of the enzymes, EC:2.7.1.6. This domain is associated with the families GHMP_kinases_C, pfam08544 and GHMP_kinases_N, pfam00288.
OprB	Carbohydrate-selective porin, OprB family. 
U79_P34	HSV U79 / HCMV P34. This family represents herpes virus protein U79 and cytomegalovirus early phosphoprotein P34 (UL112).
BCAS2	Breast carcinoma amplified sequence 2 (BCAS2). This family consists of several eukaryotic sequences of unknown function. The mammalian members of this family are annotated as breast carcinoma amplified sequence 2 (BCAS2) proteins. BCAS2 is a putative spliceosome associated protein.
DUF266	Domain of unknown function, DUF266. This plant domain is likely to be a glycosyl transferase related to PF02485.
OEP	Outer membrane efflux protein. The OEP family (Outer membrane efflux protein) form trimeric channels that allow export of a variety of substrates in Gram negative bacteria. Each member of this family is composed of two repeats. The trimeric channel is composed of a 12 stranded all beta sheet barrel that spans the outer membrane, and a long all helical barrel that spans the periplasm.
CPDase	Cyclic phosphodiesterase-like protein. Cyclic phosphodiesterase (CPDase) is involved in the tRNA splicing pathway. This protein exhibits a bilobal arrangement of two alpha-beta modules. Two antiparallel helices are found on the outer side of each lobe and frame an antiparallel beta-sheet that is wrapped around an accessible cleft. Moreover, the beta-strands of each lobe interact with the other lobe. The central water-filled cavity houses the enzyme's active site.
PBP	Phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein. 
DUF2485	Hypothetical bacterial protein (DUF2485). Many of the members of this family are annotated as NADH dehydrogenase I subunit M, but this could not be confirmed.
CCT	CCT motif. This short motif is found in a number of plant proteins. It is rich in basic amino acids and has been called a CCT motif after Co, Col and Toc1. The CCT motif is about 45 amino acids long and contains a putative nuclear localisation signal within the second half of the CCT motif. Toc1 mutants have been identified in this region.
PAS	PAS fold. The PAS fold corresponds to the structural domain that has previously been defined as PAS and PAC motifs. The PAS fold appears in archaea, eubacteria and eukarya.
SAP18	Sin3 associated polypeptide p18 (SAP18). This family consists of several eukaryotic Sin3 associated polypeptide p18 (SAP18) sequences. SAP18 is known to be a component of the Sin3-containing complex which is responsible for the repression of transcription via the modification of histone polypeptides. SAP18 is also present in the ASAP complex which is thought to be involved in the regulation of splicing during the execution of programmed cell death.
Bac_DnaA_C	Bacterial dnaA protein helix-turn-helix domain. 
DUF827	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF827). This family consists of several plant proteins of unknown function. Several sequences in this family are described as being "myosin heavy chain-like".
Cullin	Cullin family. 
Transposase_14	Transposase. Transposase proteins are necessary for efficient DNA transposition. This family includes insertion sequences from Synechocystis PCC 6803 three of which are characterised as homologous to bacterial IS5- and IS4- and to several members of the IS630-Tc1-mariner superfamily.
ACC_central	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase, central region. The region featured in this family is found in various eukaryotic acetyl-CoA carboxylases, N-terminal to the catalytic domain (pfam01039). This enzyme (EC:6.4.1.2) is involved in the synthesis of long-chain fatty acids, as it catalyses the rate-limiting step in this process.
Transposase_24	Plant transposase (Ptta/En/Spm family). Transposase proteins are necessary for efficient DNA transposition. This family includes various plant transposases from the Ptta and En/Spm families.
NosL	NosL. NosL is one of the accessory proteins of the nos (nitrous oxide reductase) gene cluster. NosL is a monomeric protein of 18,540 MW that specifically and stoichiometrically binds Cu(I). The copper ion in NosL is ligated by a Cys residue, and one Met and one His are thought to serve as the other ligands. It is possible that NosL is a copper chaperone involved in metallocenter assembly.
Nucleo_P87	Nucleopolyhedrovirus capsid protein P87. This family consists of several Nucleopolyhedrovirus capsid protein P87 sequences. P87 is expressed late in infection and concentrated in infected cell nuclei.
HlyD	HlyD family secretion protein. 
PseudoU_synth_2	RNA pseudouridylate synthase. Members of this family are involved in modifying bases in RNA molecules. They carry out the conversion of uracil bases to pseudouridine. This family includes RluD, a pseudouridylate synthase that converts specific uracils to pseudouridine in 23S rRNA. RluA from Escherichia coli converts bases in both rRNA and tRNA.
ubiquitin	Ubiquitin family. This family contains a number of ubiquitin-like proteins: SUMO (smt3 homologue), Nedd8, Elongin B, Rub1, and Parkin. A number of them are thought to carry a distinctive five-residue motif termed the proteasome-interacting motif (PIM), which may have a biologically significant role in protein delivery to proteasomes and recruitment of proteasomes to transcription sites.
NLPC_P60	NlpC/P60 family. The function of this domain is unknown. It is found in several lipoproteins.
KIX	KIX domain. CBP and P300 bind to the CREB via a domain known as KIX. The KIX domain of CBP also binds to transactivation domains of other nuclear factors including Myb and Jun.
Big_1	Bacterial Ig-like domain (group 1). This family consists of bacterial domains with an Ig-like fold. Members of this family are found in bacterial surface proteins such as intimins and invasins involved in pathogenicity.
Phos_pyr_kin	Phosphomethylpyrimidine kinase. This enzyme EC:2.7.4.7 is part of the Thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) synthesis pathway, TPP is an essential cofactor for many enzymes.
GTP_cyclohydroI	GTP cyclohydrolase I. This family includes GTP cyclohydrolase enzymes and a family of related bacterial proteins.
DUF1098	Protein of unknown function (DUF1098). This family consists of several hypothetical Baculovirus proteins of unknown function.
CTP_synth_N	CTP synthase N-terminus. This family consists of the N-terminal region of the CTP synthase protein (EC:6.3.4.2). This family is found in conjunction with pfam00117 located in the C-terminal region of the protein. CTP synthase catalyses the synthesis of CTP from UTP by amination of the pyrimidine ring at the 4-position.
Trans_reg_C	Transcriptional regulatory protein, C terminal. 
Phage_sheath_1	Phage tail sheath protein. This family includes a variety of phage tail sheath proteins.
PIG-U	GPI transamidase subunit PIG-U. Many eukaryotic proteins are anchored to the cell surface via glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI), which is posttranslationally attached to the carboxyl-terminus by GPI transamidase. The mammalian GPI transamidase is a complex of at least four subunits, GPI8, GAA1, PIG-S, and PIG-T. PIG-U is thought to represent a fifth subunit in this complex and may be involved in the recognition of either the GPI attachment signal or the lipid portion of GPI.
UNC-50	UNC-50 family. Gmh1p from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is located in the Golgi membrane and interacts with ARF exchange factors.
Ycf9	YCF9. This family consists of the hypothetical protein product of the YCF9 gene from chloroplasts and cyanobacteria. These proteins have no known function.
Adaptin_binding	Alpha and gamma adaptin binding protein p34. p34 is a protein involved in membrane trafficking. It is known to interact with both alpha and gamma adaptin. It has been speculated that p34 may play a chaperone role such as preventing the soluble adaptors from co-assembling with soluble clathrin, or helping to remove the adaptors from the coated vesicle. Another possible function is in aiding the recruitment of soluble adaptors onto the membrane.
Mcm10	Mcm10 replication factor. Mcm10 is a eukaryotic DNA replication factor that regulates the stability and chromatin association of DNA polymerase alpha.
DUF1183	Protein of unknown function (DUF1183). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of around 360 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
Transposase_32	Putative transposase. Transposases are needed for efficient transposition of the insertion sequence or transposon DNA. This family includes transposases IS1294 and IS801.
DUF1740	Protein of unknown function (DUF1740). This is a family of eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
DUF2138	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2138). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function.
DUF566	Family of unknown function (DUF566). Family of related proteins that is plant specific.
Dus	Dihydrouridine synthase (Dus). Members of this family catalyse the reduction of the 5,6-double bond of a uridine residue on tRNA. Dihydrouridine modification of tRNA is widely observed in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, and also in some archae. Most dihydrouridines are found in the D loop of t-RNAs. The role of dihydrouridine in tRNA is currently unknown, but may increase conformational flexibility of the tRNA. It is likely that different family members have different substrate specificities, which may overlap. Dus 1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae acts on pre-tRNA-Phe, while Dus 2 acts on pre-tRNA-Tyr and pre-tRNA-Leu. Dus 1 is active as a single subunit, requiring NADPH or NADH, and is stimulated by the presence of FAD. Some family members may be targeted to the mitochondria and even have a role in mitochondria.
Peptidase_M41	Peptidase family M41. 
BON	Putative phospholipid-binding domain. This domain is found in a family of osmotic shock protection proteins. It is also found in some Secretins and a group of potential haemolysins. Its likely function is attachment to phospholipid membranes.
CTP_transf_2	Cytidylyltransferase. This family includes: Cholinephosphate cytidylyltransferase. Glycerol-3-phosphate cytidylyltransferase.
60KD_IMP	60Kd inner membrane protein. 
ClpB_D2-small	C-terminal, D2-small domain, of ClpB protein. This is the C-terminal domain of ClpB protein, referred to as the D2-small domain, and is a mixed alpha-beta structure. Compared with the D1-small domain (included in AAA, pfam00004) it lacks the long coiled-coil insertion, and instead of helix C4 contains a beta-strand (e3) that is part of a three stranded beta-pleated sheet. In Thermophilus the whole protein forms a hexamer with the D1-small and D2-small domains located on the outside of the hexamer, with the long coiled-coil being exposed on the surface. The D2-small domain is essential for oligomerisation, forming a tight interface with the D2-large domain of a neighbouring subunit and thereby providing enough binding energy to stabilise the functional assembly. The domain is associated with two Clp_N, pfam02861, at the N-terminus as well as AAA, pfam00004 and AAA_2, pfam07724.
REV	REV protein (anti-repression trans-activator protein). 
NnrS	NnrS protein. This family consists of several bacterial NnrS like proteins. NnrS is a putative heme-Cu protein (NnrS) and a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase family. Expression of nnrS is dependent on the transcriptional regulator NnrR, which also regulates expression of genes required for the reduction of nitrite to nitrous oxide, including nirK and nor. NnrS is a haem- and copper-containing membrane protein. Genes encoding putative orthologues of NnrS are sometimes but not always found in bacteria encoding nitrite and/or nitric oxide reductase.
Crl	Transcriptional regulator Crl. This family contains the bacterial transcriptional regulator Crl (approximately 130 residues long). This is a transcriptional regulator of the csgA curlin subunit gene for curli fibres that are found on the surface of certain bacteria.
HEAT	HEAT repeat. The HEAT repeat family is related to armadillo/beta-catenin-like repeats (see pfam00514).
Plus-3	Plus-3 domain. This domain is about 90 residues in length and is often found associated with the pfam02213 domain. The function of this domain is uncertain. It is possible that this domain is involved in DNA binding as it has three conserved positively charged residues, hence this domain has been named the plus-3 domain. It is found in yeast Rtf1 which may be a transcription elongation factor.
Root_cap	Root cap. The cells at the periphery of the root cap are continuously sloughed off from the root into the mucilage, and are thought to be programmed to die.This family represents a conserved region approximately 60 residues in length within plant root cap proteins, which may be involved in the process.
Pox_RNA_Pol_22	Poxvirus RNA polymerase 22 kDa subunit. This family consists of several poxvirus DNA-dependent RNA polymerase 22 kDa subunits.
DUF1018	Protein of unknown function (DUF1018). This family consists of several bacterial and phage proteins of unknown function.
PAM2	Ataxin-2 C-terminal region. The PABP-interacting motif PAM2 has been identified in various eukaryotic proteins as an important binding site for pfam00658. It has been found in a wide range of eukaryotic proteins. Strikingly, this motif appears to occur solely outside of globular domains.
bZIP_1	bZIP transcription factor. The Pfam entry includes the basic region and the leucine zipper region.
GD_AH_C	D-galactarate dehydratase / Altronate hydrolase, C terminus. Family members include the C termini of D-galactarate dehydratase (EC:4.2.1.42) which is thought to catalyse the reaction D-galactarate = 5-keto-4-deoxy-D-glucarate + H2O, and altronate hydrolase (altronic acid hydratase, EC:4.2.1.7), which catalyses D-altronate = 2-keto-2-deoxygluconate + H2O. As purified, both enzymes are catalytically inactive in the absence of added Fe2+, Mn2+, and beta-mercaptoethanol. Synergistic activation of altronate hydrolase activity is seen in the presence of both iron and manganese ions, suggesting that the enzyme may have two ion binding sites. Mn2+ appears to be part of the enzyme active centre, but the function of the single bound Fe2+ ion is unknown. The hydratase has no Fe-S core.
DUF1750	Fungal domain of unknown function (DUF1750). This is a fungal domain of unknown function.
AXE1	Acetyl xylan esterase (AXE1). This family consists of several bacterial acetyl xylan esterase proteins. Acetyl xylan esterases are enzymes that hydrolyse the ester linkages of the acetyl groups in position 2 and/or 3 of the xylose moieties of natural acetylated xylan from hardwood. These enzymes are one of the accessory enzymes which are part of the xylanolytic system, together with xylanases, beta-xylosidases, alpha-arabinofuranosidases and methylglucuronidases; these are all required for the complete hydrolysis of xylan.
DBI_PRT	Phosphoribosyltransferase. This family of proteins represent the nicotinate-nucleotide- dimethylbenzimidazole phosphoribosyltransferase (NN:DBI PRT) enzymes involved in dimethylbenzimidazole synthesis. This function is essential to de novo cobalamin (vitamin B12) production in bacteria. Nicotinate mononucleotide (NaMN):5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole (DMB) phosphoribosyltransferase (CobT) from Salmonella enterica plays a central role in the synthesis of alpha-ribazole-5'-phosphate, an intermediate for the lower ligand of cobalamin.
Radical_SAM_N	Radical SAM N-terminal. This domain tends to occur to the N-terminus of the pfam04055 domain in hypothetical bacterial proteins.
G6PD_N	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, NAD binding domain. 
Nuc_sug_transp	Nucleotide-sugar transporter. This family of membrane proteins transport nucleotide sugars from the cytoplasm into golgi vesicles. Human solute carrier family 35 member A1 transports CMP-sialic acid, solute carrier family 35 member A2 transports UDP-galactose and solute carrier family 35 member A3 transports UDP-GlcNAc.
Cdc6_C	CDC6, C terminal. The C terminal domain of CDC6 assumes a winged helix fold, with a five alpha-helical bundle (alpha15-alpha19) structure, backed on one side by three beta strands (beta6-beta8). It has been shown that this domain acts as a DNA-localisation factor, however its exact function is, as yet, unknown. Putative functions include: (1) mediation of protein-protein interactions and (2) regulation of nucleotide binding and hydrolysis. Mutagenesis studies have shown that this domain is essential for appropriate Cdc6 activity.
DUF2331	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2331). Members of this family of hypothetical bacterial proteins have no known function.
Apc13p	Apc13p protein. The anaphase-promoting complex (APC) is a conserved multi-subunit ubiquitin ligase required for the degradation of key cell cycle regulators Members of this family are components of the anaphase-promoting complex homologous to Apc13p.
Ribosomal_L29	Ribosomal L29 protein. 
SAM_2	SAM domain (Sterile alpha motif). 
DUF1167	Protein of unknown function (DUF1167). This family consists of several uncharacterised mammalian proteins of unknown function.
Lipase_3	Lipase (class 3). 
Transposase_21	Transposase family tnp2. 
UPF0153	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0153). This family of proteins contain 8 conserved cysteines that may form a metal binding site. The function of these proteins is unknown but might be an Fe-S cluster as part of an oxidoreductase complex.
Ribosomal_L27e	Ribosomal L27e protein family. The N-terminal region of the eukaryotic ribosomal L27 has the KOW motif. C-terminal region is represented by this family.
DUF2506	Protein of unknown function (DUF2506). This family is conserved in Alphaproteobacteria. The function is not known.
NCA2	ATP synthase regulation protein NCA2. NCA2 has been shown to be required for the regulation of ATP synthase subunits Atp6p and Atp8p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Frigida	Frigida-like protein. This family is composed of plant proteins that are similar to FRIGIDA protein expressed by Arabidopsis thaliana. This protein is probably nuclear and is required for the regulation of flowering time in the late-flowering phenotype. It is known to increase RNA levels of flowering locus C. Allelic variation at the FRIGIDA locus is a major determinant of natural variation in flowering time.
CDK5_activator	Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 activator protein. 
TFIIB	Transcription factor TFIIB repeat. 
DUF850	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF850). This family consists of several eukaryotic putative membrane proteins of unknown function.
DAP3	Mitochondrial ribosomal death-associated protein 3. This is a family of conserved proteins which were originally described as death-associated-protein-3 (DAP-3). The proteins carry a P-loop DNA-binding motif, and induce apoptosis. DAP3 has been shown to be a pro-apoptotic factor in the mitochondrial matrix and to be crucial for mitochondrial biogenesis and so has also been designated as MRP-S29 (mitochondrial ribosomal protein subunit 29).
Fimbrial	Fimbrial protein. 
GWT1	GWT1. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) is a conserved post-translational modification to anchor cell surface proteins to plasma membrane in eukaryotes. GWT1 is involved in GPI anchor biosynthesis; it is required for inositol acylation in yeast.
Phe_tRNA-synt_N	Aminoacyl tRNA synthetase class II, N-terminal domain. 
FFD_TFG	FFD and TFG box motifs. This pair of motifs are found in the C-terminal region of Sm-like proteins.
GreA_GreB_N	Prokaryotic transcription elongation factor, GreA/GreB, N-terminal domain. This domain adopts a long alpha-hairpin structure.
DUF1399	Protein of unknown function (DUF1399). This family represents a conserved region approximately 150 residues long within a number of hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function.
DUF246	Plant protein family. The function of this family of plant proteins is not known. However, the Swiss-Prot annotations for several sequences in this family refer to a possible involvement in auxin-independent growth regulation, on the basis of publications which have been retracted.
Sel1	Sel1 repeat. This short repeat is found in the Sel1 protein. It is related to TPR repeats.
ORC2	Origin recognition complex subunit 2. All DNA replication initiation is driven by a single conserved eukaryotic initiator complex termed he origin recognition complex (ORC). The ORC is a six protein complex.
Alpha_GJ	Alphavirus glycoprotein J. 
DUF2356	Conserved protein (DUF2356). This is a 200 amino acid region of a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. Some members have been putatively annotated as being integrator complex subunit 3 but this could not be confirmed. The function is unknown.
RB_A	Retinoblastoma-associated protein A domain. This domain has the cyclin fold as predicted.
EPL1	Enhancer of polycomb-like. This is a family of EPL1 (Enhancer of polycomb-like) proteins. The EPL1 protein is a member of a histone acetyltransferase complex which is involved in transcriptional activation of selected genes.
DUF255	Protein of unknown function, DUF255. 
Mak10	Mak10 subunit, NatC N(alpha)-terminal acetyltransferase. NatC N(alpha)-terminal acetyltransferases contains Mak10p, Mak31p and Mak3p subunits. All three subunits are associated with each other to form the active complex.
FCP1_C	FCP1, C-terminal. The C-terminal domain of FCP-1 is required for interaction with the carboxy terminal domain of RAP74. Interaction relies extensively on van der Waals contacts between hydrophobic residues situated within alpha-helices in both domains.
Umbravirus_LDM	Umbravirus long distance movement (LDM) family. The long distance movement protein of Umbraviruses mediates the movement of viral RNA through the phloem of infected plants.
DUF1692	Protein of unknown function (DUF1692). This family contains many hypothetical proteins. It also contains proteins which are involved in transport between the ER and Golgi complex protein transport from ER to Golgi.
Oxidored_q1	NADH-Ubiquinone/plastoquinone (complex I), various chains. This family is part of complex I which catalyses the transfer of two electrons from NADH to ubiquinone in a reaction that is associated with proton translocation across the membrane.
CBM_48	Carbohydrate-binding module 48 (Isoamylase N-terminal domain). This domain is found in a range of enzymes that act on branched substrates - isoamylase, pullulanase and branching enzyme. This family also contains the beta subunit of 5' AMP activated kinase.
Laps	Learning-associated protein. This is a family of 121-amino acid secretory proteins. Laps functions in the regulation of neuronal cell adhesion and/or movement and synapse attachment. Laps binds to the ApC/EBP (Aplysia CCAAT/enhancer binding protein) promoter and activates the transcription of ApC/EBP mRNA.
Flavoprotein	Flavoprotein. This family contains diverse flavoprotein enzymes. This family includes epidermin biosynthesis protein, EpiD, which has been shown to be a flavoprotein that binds FMN. This enzyme catalyses the removal of two reducing equivalents from the cysteine residue of the C-terminal meso-lanthionine of epidermin to form a --C==C-- double bond. This family also includes the B chain of dipicolinate synthase a small polar molecule that accumulates to high concentrations in bacterial endospores, and is thought to play a role in spore heat resistance, or the maintenance of heat resistance. dipicolinate synthase catalyses the formation of dipicolinic acid from dihydroxydipicolinic acid. This family also includes phenylacrylic acid decarboxylase (EC:4.1.1.-).
DUF1308	Protein of unknown function (DUF1308). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic sequences of around 400 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
TK	Thymidine kinase. 
Tim44	Tim44-like domain. Tim44 is an essential component of the machinery that mediates the translocation of nuclear-encoded proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane. Tim44 is thought to bind phospholipids of the mitochondrial inner membrane both by electrostatic interactions and by penetrating the polar head group region. This family includes the C-terminal region of Tim44 that has been shown to form a stable proteolytic fragment in yeast. This region is also found in a set of smaller bacterial proteins. The molecular function of the bacterial members of this family is unknown but transport seems likely. The crystal structure of the C terminal of Tim44 has revealed a large hydrophobic pocket which might play an important role in interacting with the acyl chains of lipid molecules in the mitochondrial membrane.
Glutenin_hmw	High molecular weight glutenin subunit. Members of this family include high molecular weight subunits of glutenin. This group of gluten proteins is thought to be largely responsible for the elastic properties of gluten, and hence, doughs. Indeed, glutenin high molecular weight subunits are classified as elastomeric proteins, because the glutenin network can withstand significant deformations without breaking, and return to the original conformation when the stress is removed. Elastomeric proteins differ considerably in amino acid sequence, but they are all polymers whose subunits consist of elastomeric domains, composed of repeated motifs, and non-elastic domains that mediate cross-linking between the subunits. The elastomeric domain motifs are all rich in glycine residues in addition to other hydrophobic residues. High molecular weight glutenin subunits have an extensive central elastomeric domain, flanked by two terminal non-elastic domains that form disulphide cross-links. The central elastomeric domain is characterised by the following three repeated motifs: PGQGQQ, GYYPTS[P/L]QQ, GQQ. It possesses overlapping beta-turns within and between the repeated motifs, and assumes a regular helical secondary structure with a diameter of approx. 1.9 nm and a pitch of approx. 1.5 nm.
Glyco_transf_6	Glycosyltransferase family 6. 
DBP10CT	DBP10CT (NUC160) domain. This C terminal domain is found in the Dbp10p subfamily of hypothetical RNA helicases.
Profilin	Profilin. 
MAT1	CDK-activating kinase assembly factor MAT1. MAT1 is an assembly/targeting factor for cyclin-dependent kinase-activating kinase (CAK), which interacts with the transcription factor TFIIH. The domain found to the N-terminal side of this domain is a C3HC4 RING finger.
Abhydrolase_1	alpha/beta hydrolase fold. This catalytic domain is found in a very wide range of enzymes.
CytochromB561_N	Cytochrome B561, N terminal. Members of this family are found in the N terminal region of cytochrome B561, as well as in various other putative uncharacterised proteins.
DUF2452	Protein of unknown function (DUF2452). This protein is found in eukaryotes but its function is unknown.
HK	Hydroxyethylthiazole kinase family. 
DUF2039	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2039). This entry is a region of approximately 100 residues containing three pairs of cysteine residues. The region is conserved from plants to humans but its function is unknown.
Oxidored-like	Oxidoreductase-like protein, N-terminal. Members of this family are found in the N terminal region of various oxidoreductase like proteins. Their exact function is, as yet, unknown.
PC_rep	Proteasome/cyclosome repeat. 
CBM_20	Starch binding domain. 
Ribosomal_S14	Ribosomal protein S14p/S29e. This family includes both ribosomal S14 from prokaryotes and S29 from eukaryotes.
DUF21	Domain of unknown function DUF21. This transmembrane region has no known function. Many of the sequences in this family are annotated as hemolysins, however this is due to a similarity to hemolysin C from Brachyspira hyodysenteriae that does not contain this domain. This domain is found in the N-terminus of the proteins adjacent to two intracellular CBS domains pfam00571.
WAK	Wall-associated kinase. This domain is found together with the eukaryotic protein kinase domain pfam00069 in plant wall-associated kinases (WAKs) and related proteins. WAKs are serine-threonine kinases which might be involved in signalling to the cytoplasm and are required for cell expansion.
DUF883	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF883). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
TRAM_LAG1_CLN8	TLC domain. 
APOBEC_N	APOBEC-like N-terminal domain. A mechanism of generating protein diversity is mRNA editing. Members of this family are C-to-U editing enzymes. The N-terminal domain of APOBEC-1 like proteins is the catalytic domain, while the C-terminal domain is a pseudocatalyitc domain. More specifically, the catalytic domain is a zinc dependent deaminases domain and is essential for cytidine deamination.APOBEC-3 like members contain two copies of this domain. This family also includes the functionally homologous activation induced deaminase, which is essential for the development of antibody diversity in B lymphocytes. RNA editing by APOBEC-1 requires homodimerisation and this complex interacts with RNA binding proteins to from the editosome (and references therein).
Tweety	Tweety. The tweety (tty) gene has not been characterised at the protein level. However, it is thought to form a membrane protein with five potential membrane-spanning regions. A number of potential functions have been suggested.
Penicil_amidase	Penicillin amidase. Penicillin amidase or penicillin acylase EC:3.5.1.11 catalyses the hydrolysis of benzylpenicillin to phenylacetic acid and 6-aminopenicillanic acid (6-APA) a key intermediate in the the synthesis of penicillins. Also in the family is cephalosporin acylase and aculeacin A acylase, which are involved in the synthesis of related peptide antibiotics.
Glyco_hydro_77	4-alpha-glucanotransferase. These enzymes EC:2.4.1.25 transfer a segment of a (1,4)-alpha-D-glucan to a new 4-position in an acceptor, which may be glucose or (1,4)-alpha-D-glucan.
PMD	Plant mobile domain. This domain was identified by Babu and colleagues in a variety of transposases.
Cytochrom_C1	Cytochrome C1 family. 
DUF2201	Predicted metallopeptidase (DUF2201). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
LEA_3	Late embryogenesis abundant protein. Members of this family are similar to late embryogenesis abundant proteins. Members of the family have been isolated in a number of different screens. However, the molecular function of these proteins remains obscure.
EBP	Emopamil binding protein. Emopamil binding protein (EBP) is as a gene that encodes a non-glycosylated type I integral membrane protein of endoplasmic reticulum and shows high level expression in epithelial tissues. The EBP protein has emopamil binding domains, including the sterol acceptor site and the catalytic centre, which show Delta8-Delta7 sterol isomerase activity. Human sterol isomerase, a homologue of mouse EBP, is suggested not only to play a role in cholesterol biosynthesis, but also to affect lipoprotein internalisation. In humans, mutations of EBP are known to cause the genetic disorder of X-linked dominant chondrodysplasia punctata (CDPX2). This syndrome of humans is lethal in most males, and affected females display asymmetric hyperkeratotic skin and skeletal abnormalities.
zf-LYAR	LYAR-type C2HC zinc finger. This C2HC zinc finger is found in LYAR proteins which are involved in cell growth regulation.
DUF602	Protein of unknown function, DUF602. This family represents several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
Dynamin_N	Dynamin family. 
Bac_ATP_syn_I	Bacterial ATP synthase I. 
Rad10	Binding domain of DNA repair protein Ercc1 (rad10/Swi10). Ercc1 and XPF (xeroderma pigmentosum group F-complementing protein) are two structure-specific endonucleases of a class of seven containing an ERCC4 domain. Together they form an obligate complex that functions primarily in nucleotide excision repair (NER), a versatile pathway able to detect and remove a variety of DNA lesions induced by UV light and environmental carcinogens, and secondarily in DNA interstrand cross-link repair and telomere maintenance. This domain in fact binds simultaneously to both XPF and single-stranded DNA; this ternary complex explains the important role of Ercc1 in targeting its catalytic XPF partner to the NER pre-incision complex.
O-FucT	GDP-fucose protein O-fucosyltransferase. This is a family of conserved proteins representing the enzyme responsible for adding O-fucose to EGF (epidermal growth factor-like) repeats. Six highly conserved cysteines are present in O-FucT-1 as well as a DXD-like motif (ERD), conserved in mammals, Drosophila, and Caenorhabditis elegans. Both features are characteristic of several glycosyltransferase families. The enzyme is a membrane-bound protein released by proteolysis and, as for most glycosyltransferases, is strongly activated by manganese.
E1_DerP2_DerF2	ML domain. ML domain - MD-2-related lipid recognition domain. This family consists of proteins from plants, animals and fungi, including dust mite allergen Der P 2. It has been implicate in lipid recognition, particularly in the recognition of pathogen related products. A mutation in Npc2 causes a rare form of Niemann-Pick type C2 disease.
SAP	SAP domain. The SAP (after SAF-A/B, Acinus and PIAS) motif is a putative DNA/RNA binding domain found in diverse nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins.
PsbT	Photosystem II reaction centre T protein. The exact function of this protein is unknown. It probably consists of a single transmembrane spanning helix. The Photosystem II reaction center protein T appears to be (i) a novel photosystem II subunit and (ii) required for maintaining optimal photosystem II activity under adverse growth conditions.
AmoA	Putative ammonia monooxygenase. This family are annotated by COGS as putative ammonia monooxygenase enzymes.
PMEI	Plant invertase/pectin methylesterase inhibitor. This domain inhibits pectin methylesterases (PMEs) and invertases through formation of a non-covalent 1:1 complex. It has been implicated in the regulation of fruit development, carbohydrate metabolism and cell wall extension (see). It may also be involved in inhibiting microbial pathogen PMEs. It has been observed that it is often expressed as a large inactive preprotein. It is also found at the N-termini of PMEs predicted from DNA sequences (personal obs:C Yeats), suggesting that both PMEs and their inhibitor are expressed as a single polyprotein and subsequently processed. It has two disulphide bridges and is mainly alpha-helical.
S-antigen	S-antigen protein. S-antigens are heat stable proteins that are found in the blood of individuals infected with malaria.
TFIIIC_subunit	TFIIIC subunit. This is a family of proteins subunits of TFIIIC. TFIIIC in yeast and humans is required for transcription of tRNA and 5 S RNA genes by RNA polymerase III. Yeast members of this family are fused to phosphoglycerate mutase domain.
DUF747	Eukaryotic membrane protein family. This family is a family of eukaryotic membrane proteins. It was previously annotated as including a putative receptor for human cytomegalovirus gH but this has has since been disputed. Analysis of the mouse Tapt1 protein (transmembrane anterior posterior transformation 1) has shown it to be involved in patterning of the vertebrate axial skeleton.
IBN_N	Importin-beta N-terminal domain. 
PHF5	PHF5-like protein. This family of proteins the superfamily of PHD-finger proteins. At least one example, from mouse, may act as a chromatin-associated protein. The S. pombe ini1 gene is essential, required for splicing. It is localised in the nucleus, but not detected in the nucleolus and can be complemented by human ini1.
Tbf5	Transcription factor TFIIH complex subunit Tfb5. This family is a component of the general transcription and DNA repair factor IIH. TFB5 has been shown to be required for efficient recruitment of TFIIH to a promoter.
FLO_LFY	Floricaula / Leafy protein. This family consists of various plant development proteins which are homologues of floricaula (FLO) and Leafy (LFY) proteins which are floral meristem identity proteins. Mutations in the sequences of these proteins affect flower and leaf development.
C1_2	C1 domain. This short domain is rich in cysteines and histidines. The pattern of conservation is similar to that found in pfam00130, therefore we have termed this domain DC1 for divergent C1 domain. This domain probably also binds to two zinc ions. The function of proteins with this domain is uncertain, however this domain may bind to molecules such as diacylglycerol (A Bateman pers. obs.). This family are found in plant proteins.
zf-C2HC_plant	Protein of unknown function, DUF1544. This region is conserved in several predicted nucleoproteins and transposase-like proteins.
Y_phosphatase2	Tyrosine phosphatase family. This family is closely related to the pfam00102 and pfam00782 families.
Mt_ATP-synt_D	ATP synthase D chain, mitochondrial (ATP5H). This family consists of several ATP synthase D chain, mitochondrial (ATP5H) proteins. Subunit d has no extensive hydrophobic sequences, and is not apparently related to any subunit described in the simpler ATP synthases in bacteria and chloroplasts.
Methyltransf_3	O-methyltransferase. Members of this family are O-methyltransferases. The family includes catechol o-methyltransferase, caffeoyl-CoA O-methyltransferase, and a family of bacterial O-methyltransferases that may be involved in antibiotic production.
Neogenin_C	Neogenin C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus of eukaryotic neogenin precursor proteins, which contains several potential phosphorylation sites. Neogenin is a member of the N-CAM family of cell adhesion molecules (and therefore contains multiple copies of pfam00047 and pfam00041) and is closely related to the DCC tumour suppressor gene product - these proteins may play an integral role in regulating differentiation programmes and/or cell migration events within many adult and embryonic tissues.
DUF872	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF872). This family consists of several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins. The function of this family is unknown.
Phage_holin_4	Holin family. Phage holins and lytic enzymes are both necessary for bacterial lysis and virus dissemination.This family also includes TcdE/UtxA involved in toxin secretion in Clostridium difficile.
MFAP1_C	Micro-fibrillar-associated protein 1 C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 300 residues) of eukaryotic micro-fibrillar-associated protein 1, which is a component of elastin-associated microfibrils in the extracellular matrix.
Pec_lyase_C	Pectate lyase. This enzyme forms a right handed beta helix structure. Pectate lyase is an enzyme involved in the maceration and soft rotting of plant tissue.
DUF1014	Protein of unknown function (DUF1014). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
Sec39	Secretory pathway protein Sec39. Mnaimneh et al identified Sec39p as a protein involved in ER-Golgi transport in a large scale promoter shut down analysis of essential yeast genes. Kraynack et al. (2005) showed that Sec39p (Dsl3p) is required for Golgi-ER retrograde transport and is part of a very stable protein complex that also includes Dsl1p (in mammals ZW10), Tip20p (Rint-1) and the ER localized Q-SNARE proteins Ufe1p (syntaxin-18), Sec20p and Use1p. This was confirmed in a genome-wide analysis of protein complexes by Gavin et al (2006).
GatB_N	PET112 family, N terminal region. 
HIRAN	HIRAN domain. The HIRAN domain (HIP116, Rad5p N-terminal) is found in the N-terminal regions of the SWI2/SNF2 proteins typified by HIP116 and Rad5p. The HIRAN domain is found as a standalone protein in several bacteria and prophages, or fused to other catalytic domains, such as a nuclease of the restriction endonuclease fold and TDP1-like DNA phosphoesterases, in the eukaryotes. It has been predicted that this domain functions as a DNA-binding domain that probably recognises features associated with damaged DNA or stalled replication forks
PRP38	PRP38 family. Members of this family are related to the pre mRNA splicing factor PRP38 from yeast. Therefore all the members of this family could be involved in splicing. This conserved region could be involved in RNA binding. The putative domain is about 180 amino acids in length. PRP38 is a unique component of the U4/U6.U5 tri-small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) particle and is necessary for an essential step late in spliceosome maturation.
TAFII28	hTAFII28-like protein conserved region. The general transcription factor, TFIID, consists of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) associated with a series of TBP-associated factors (TAFs) that together participate in the assembly of the transcription preinitiation complex. The conserved region is found at the C-terminal of most member proteins. The crystal structure of hTAFII28 with hTAFII18 shows that this region is involved in the binding of these two subunits. The conserved region contains four alpha helices and three loops arranged as in histone H3.
Roughex	Drosophila roughex protein. This family consists of several roughex (RUX) proteins specific to Drosophila species. Roughex can influence the intracellular distribution of cyclin A and is therefore defined as a distinct and specialised cell cycle inhibitor for cyclin A-dependent kinase activity. Rux is though to regulate the metaphase to anaphase transition during development.
DUF1785	Domain of unknown function (DUF1785). This region is found in argonaute proteins and often co-occurs with pfam02179 and pfam02171.
Glu-tRNAGln	Glu-tRNAGln amidotransferase C subunit. This is a family of Glu-tRNAGln amidotransferase C subunits. The Glu-tRNA Gln amidotransferase enzyme itself is an important translational fidelity mechanism replacing incorrectly charged Glu-tRNAGln with the correct Gln-tRANGln via transmidation of the misacylated Glu-tRNAGln. This activity supplements the lack of glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase activity in gram-positive eubacterteria, cyanobacteria, Archaea, and organelles.
FAT	FAT domain. The FAT domain is named after FRAP, ATM and TRRAP.
AFT	Transcription factor AFT. AFT (activator of iron transcription) is an iron regulated transcriptional activator that regulates the expression of genes involved in iron homeostasis. This family includes the paralogous pair of transcription factors AFT1 and AFT2.
Lir1	Light regulated protein Lir1. This family consists of several plant specific light regulated Lir1 proteins. Lir1 mRNA accumulates in the light, reaching maximum and minimum steady-state levels at the end of the light and dark period, respectively. Plants germinated in the dark have very low levels of lir1 mRNA, whereas plants germinated in continuous light express lir1 at an intermediate but constant level. It is thought that lir1 expression is controlled by light and a circadian clock. The exact function of this family is unclear.
NAD_binding_5	Myo-inositol-1-phosphate synthase. This is a family of myo-inositol-1-phosphate synthases. Inositol-1-phosphate catalyses the conversion of glucose-6- phosphate to inositol-1-phosphate, which is then dephosphorylated to inositol. Inositol phosphates play an important role in signal transduction.
TraS	Plasmid conjugative transfer entry exclusion protein TraS. Entry exclusion (Eex) is a process which prevents redundant transfer of DNA between donor cells. TraS is a protein involved in Eex. It blocks redundant conjugative DNA synthesis and transport between donor cells, and it is suggested that TraS interferes with a signalling pathway that is required to trigger DNA transfer. TraS on the recipient cell is known to form an interaction with TraG on the donor cell.
Glyco_hydro_3	Glycosyl hydrolase family 3 N terminal domain. 
EAF	ELL-associated factor. Members of this family act as transcriptional transactivators of ELL and ELL2 elongation activities.
Ribosomal_L36	Ribosomal protein L36. 
DnaJ_C	DnaJ C terminal region. This family consists of the C terminal region form the DnaJ protein. Although the function of this region is unknown, it is always found associated with pfam00226 and pfam00684. DnaJ is a chaperone associated with the Hsp70 heat-shock system involved in protein folding and renaturation after stress.
Oleosin	Oleosin. 
Branch	Core-2/I-Branching enzyme. This is a family of two different beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase enzymes, I-branching enzyme and core-2 branching enzyme. I-branching enzyme is responsible for the production of the blood group I-antigen during embryonic development. Core-2 branching enzyme forms crucial side-chain branches in O-glycans.
PrpF	PrpF protein. PrpF is a protein found in the 2-methylcitrate pathway. It is structurally similar to DAP epimerase and proline racemase. This protein is likely to acts to isomerise trans-aconitate to cis-aconitate.
DUF1263	Protein of unknown function (DUF1263). This family represents a conserved region located towards the C-terminus of a number proteins of unknown function that seem to be specific to Oryza sativa.
Ribosomal_L34e	Ribosomal protein L34e. 
LysM	LysM domain. The LysM (lysin motif) domain is about 40 residues long. It is found in a variety of enzymes involved in bacterial cell wall degradation. This domain may have a general peptidoglycan binding function. The structure of this domain is known.
Cyanate_lyase	Cyanate lyase C-terminal domain. Cyanate lyase (also known as cyanase) EC:4.3.99.1 is responsible for the hydrolysis of cyanate, allowing organisms that possess the enzyme to overcome the toxicity of environmental cyanate. This enzyme is composed of two domains, an N-terminal helix-turn-helix and this structurally unique C-terminal domain.
Tektin	Tektin family. Tektins are cytoskeletal proteins. They have been demonstrated in such cellular sites as centrioles, basal bodies, and along ciliary and flagellar doublet microtubules. Tektins form unique protofilaments, organised as longitudinal polymers of tektin heterodimers with axial periodicity matching tubulin. Tektin polypeptides consist of several alpha-helical regions that are predicted to form coiled coils. Indeed, tektins share considerable structural similarities with intermediate filament proteins. Possible functional roles for tektins are: stabilisation of tubulin protofilaments; attachment of A and B-tubules in ciliary/flagellar microtubule doublets and C-tubules in centrioles; binding of axonemal components.
DUF382	Domain of unknown function (DUF382). This domain is specific to the human splicing factor 3b subunit 2 and it's orthologues. Splicing factor 3b subunit 2 or SAP145 is a suppressor of U2 snRNA mutations. Pre-mRNA splicing is catalysed by a large ribonucleoprotein complex called the spliceosome. Spliceosomes are multi-component enzymes that catalyse pre-mRNA splicing and form step-wise by the ordered interaction of UsnRNPs and non-snRNP proteins with short conserved regions of the pre-mRNA at the 5' and 3' splice sites and branch site.
Ribosomal_L2_C	Ribosomal Proteins L2, C-terminal domain. 
LrgB	LrgB-like family. The two products of the lrgAB operon are potential membrane proteins, and LrgA and LrgB are both thought to control of murein hydrolase activity and penicillin tolerance.
CemA	CemA family. Members of this family are probable integral membrane proteins. Their molecular function is unknown. CemA proteins are found in the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts but not in the thylakoid membrane. A cyanobacterial member of this family has been implicated in CO2 transport, but is probably not a CO2 transporter itself. They are predicted to be haem-binding however this has not been proven experimentally.
7TM_GPCR_Srz	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srz. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srz is a solo families amongst the superfamilies of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'. The genes encoding Srz appear to be under strong adaptive evolutionary pressure.
SCAMP	SCAMP family. In vertebrates, secretory carrier membrane proteins (SCAMPs) 1-3 constitute a family of putative membrane-trafficking proteins composed of cytoplasmic N-terminal sequences with NPF repeats, four central transmembrane regions (TMRs), and a cytoplasmic tail. SCAMPs probably function in endocytosis by recruiting EH-domain proteins to the N-terminal NPF repeats but may have additional functions mediated by their other sequences.
DnaJ	DnaJ domain. DnaJ domains (J-domains) are associated with hsp70 heat-shock system and it is thought that this domain mediates the interaction. DnaJ-domain is therefore part of a chaperone (protein folding) system. The T-antigens, although not in Prosite are confirmed as DnaJ containing domains from literature.
Thioesterase	Thioesterase domain. Peptide synthetases are involved in the non-ribosomal synthesis of peptide antibiotics. Next to the operons encoding these enzymes, in almost all cases, are genes that encode proteins that have similarity to the type II fatty acid thioesterases of vertebrates. There are also modules within the peptide synthetases that also share this similarity. With respect to antibiotic production, thioesterases are required for the addition of the last amino acid to the peptide antibiotic, thereby forming a cyclic antibiotic. Thioesterases (non-integrated) have molecular masses of 25-29 kDa.
MRP-S22	Mitochondrial 28S ribosomal protein S22. This is the conserved N-terminus and central portion of the mitochondrial small subunit 28S ribosomal protein S22. Mammalian mitochondria carry out the synthesis of 13 polypeptides that are essential for oxidative phosphorylation and, hence, for the synthesis of the majority of the ATP used by eukaryotic organisms. The number of proteins produced by prokaryotes is smaller, reflected in the lower number of ribosomal proteins present in them.
DUF612	Protein of unknown function, DUF612. This family includes several uncharacterised proteins from Caenorhabditis elegans.
V_cholerae_RfbT	Vibrio cholerae RfbT protein. This family consists of several RfbT proteins from Vibrio cholerae. It has been found that genetic alteration of the rfbT gene is responsible for serotype conversion of Vibrio cholerae O1 and determines the difference between the Ogawa and Inaba serotypes, in that the presence of rfbT is sufficient for Inaba-to-Ogawa serotype conversion.
Transposase_23	TNP1/EN/SPM transposase. 
CobW_C	Cobalamin synthesis protein cobW C-terminal domain. This family of proteins contains P47K, a Pseudomonas chlororaphis protein needed for nitrile hydratase expression, and the cobW gene product, which may be involved in cobalamin biosynthesis in Pseudomonas denitrificans. This family represents the C-terminal domain.
DHFR_1	Dihydrofolate reductase. 
5_nucleotid_C	5'-nucleotidase, C-terminal domain. 
PI-PLC-Y	Phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C, Y domain. This associates with pfam00388 to form a single structural unit.
ERCC4	ERCC4 domain. This domain is a family of nucleases. The family includes EME1 which is an essential component of a Holliday junction resolvase. EME1 interacts with MUS81 to form a DNA structure-specific endonuclease.
Synaptobrevin	Synaptobrevin. 
Pex16	Peroxisomal membrane protein (Pex16). Pex16 is a peripheral protein located at the matrix face of the peroxisomal membrane.
DUF2042	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2042). This entry is the conserved N-terminal 300 residues of a group of proteins found from protozoa to Humans. The function is unknown.
DUF1620	Protein of unknown function (DUF1620). These sequences are mainly derived from predicted eukaryotic proteins. The region in question lies towards the C-terminus of these large proteins and is approximately 300 amino acid residues long.
N2227	N2227-like protein. This family features sequences that are similar to a region of hypothetical yeast gene product N2227. This is thought to be expressed during meiosis and may be involved in the defence response to stressful conditions.
Ribosomal_S6e	Ribosomal protein S6e. 
NUC156	NUC156 domain. This C terminal domain is found in nucleolar proteins.
DUF2319	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2319). Members of this family of hypothetical bacterial proteins have no known function.
XPA_C	XPA protein C-terminus. 
WWbp	WW-domain ligand protein. The WWbp domain is characterised by several short PY and PT-like motifs of the PPPPY form. These appear to bind directly to the WW domains of WWP1 and WWP2 and other such diverse proteins as dystrophin and YAP (Yes-associated protein). This is the WW-domain binding protein WWbp via PY and PY_like motifs. The presence of a phosphotyrosine residue in the pWBP-1 peptide abolishes WW domain binding which suggests a potential regulatory role for tyrosine phosphorylation in modulating WW domain-ligand interactions. Given the likelihood that WWP1 and WWP2 function as E3 ubiquitin-protein ligases, it is possible that initial substrate-specific recognition occurs via WW domain-substrate protein interaction followed by ubiquitin transfer and subsequent proteolysis. This domain lies just downstream of the GRAM (pfam02893) in many members.
PhaC_N	Poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate polymerase (PhaC) N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminal region of the bacterial poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate polymerase (PhaC). Polyhydroxyalkanoic acids (PHAs) are carbon and energy reserve polymers produced in some bacteria when carbon sources are plentiful and another nutrient, such as nitrogen, phosphate, oxygen, or sulfur, becomes limiting. PHAs composed of monomeric units ranging from 3 to 14 carbons exist in nature. When the carbon source is exhausted, PHA is utilised by the bacterium. PhaC links D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyrl-CoA to an existing PHA molecule by the formation of an ester bond.
DUF1430	Protein of unknown function (DUF1430). This family represents the C-terminus (approximately 120 residues) of a number of hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function. These are possibly membrane proteins involved in immunity.
Pirin	Pirin. This family consists of Pirin proteins from both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. The function of Pirin is unknown but the gene coding for this protein is known to be expressed in all tissues in the human body although it is expressed most strongly in the liver and heart. Pirin is known to be a nuclear protein, exclusively localised within the nucleoplasma and predominantly concentrated within dot-like subnuclear structures. A tomato homologue of human Pirin has been found to be induced during programmed cell death. Human Pirin interacts with Bcl-3 and NFI and hence is probably involved in the regulation of DNA transcription and replication. It appears to be an Fe(II)-containing member of the Cupin superfamily.
OPT	OPT oligopeptide transporter protein. The OPT family of oligopeptide transporters is distinct from the ABC pfam00005 and PTR pfam00854 transporter families. OPT transporters were first recognised in fungi (Candida albicans and Schizosaccharomyces pombe), but this alignment also includes orthologues from Arabidopsis thaliana. OPT transporters are thought to have 12-14 transmembrane domains and contain the following motif: SPYxEVRxxVxxxDDP.
RRM_1	RNA recognition motif. (a.k.a. RRM, RBD, or RNP domain). The RRM motif is probably diagnostic of an RNA binding protein. RRMs are found in a variety of RNA binding proteins, including various hnRNP proteins, proteins implicated in regulation of alternative splicing, and protein components of snRNPs. The motif also appears in a few single stranded DNA binding proteins. The RRM structure consists of four strands and two helices arranged in an alpha/beta sandwich, with a third helix present during RNA binding in some cases The C-terminal beta strand (4th strand) and final helix are hard to align and have been omitted in the SEED alignment The LA proteins have a N terminus rrm which is included in the seed. There is a second region towards the C terminus that has some features of a rrm but does not appear to have the important structural core of a rrm. The LA proteins are one of the main autoantigens in Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease.
SBDS_C	SBDS protein C-terminal domain. This family is highly conserved in species ranging from archaea to vertebrates and plants. The family contains several Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome (SBDS) proteins from both mouse and humans. Shwachman-Diamond syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder with clinical features that include pancreatic exocrine insufficiency, haematological dysfunction and skeletal abnormalities. Members of this family play a role in RNA metabolism.
ETC_C1_NDUFA5	ETC complex I subunit conserved region. Family of eukaryotic NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunits (EC:1.6.5.3) (EC:1.6.99.3) from complex I of the electron transport chain initially identified in Neurospora crassa as a 29.9 kDa protein. The conserved region is found at the N-terminus of the member proteins.
Herpes_UL25	Herpesvirus UL25 family. The herpesvirus UL25 gene product is a virion component involved in virus penetration and capsid assembly. The product of the UL25 gene is required for packaging but not cleavage of replicated viral DNA. This family includes a number of herpesvirus proteins: EHV-1 36, EBV BVRF1, HCMV UL77, ILTV ORF2, and VZV gene 34.
MED6	MED6 mediator sub complex component. Component of RNA polymerase II holoenzyme and mediator sub complex.
Glyco_hydro_12	Glycosyl hydrolase family 12. 
Herpes_UL49_2	Herpesvirus UL49 tegument protein. 
DUF1746	Fungal domain of unknown function (DUF1746). This is a fungal domain of unknown function.
ComA	(2R)-phospho-3-sulfolactate synthase (ComA). In methanobacteria (2R)-phospho-3-sulfolactate synthase (ComA) catalyses the first step of the biosynthesis of coenzyme M from phosphoenolpyruvate (P-enolpyruvate). This novel enzyme catalyses the stereospecific Michael addition of sulfite to P-enolpyruvate, forming L-2-phospho-3-sulfolactate (PSL). It is suggested that the ComA-catalysed reaction is analogous to those reactions catalysed by beta-elimination enzymes that proceed through an enolate intermediate.
BT1	BT1 family. Members of this family are transmembrane proteins. Several are Leishmania putative proteins that are thought to be pteridine transporters. One such protein, previously termed (and is still annotated as) ORFG, was shown to encode a biopterin transport protein using null mutants, thus being subsequently renamed BT1. The significant similarity of ORFG/BT1 to Trypanosoma brucei ESAG10 (a putative transmembrane protein and another member of this family) was previously noted. This family also contains five putative Arabidopsis thaliana proteins of unknown function. In addition, it also contains two predicted prokaryotic proteins (from the cyanobacteria Synechocystis and Synechococcus).
DUF360	Membrane protein of unknown function. These proteins a predicted transmembrane proteins with probably four transmembrane spans. The function of these bacterial proteins is unknown. The sequences do not appear to contain any conserved polar residues that could form an active site.
Nop10p	Nucleolar RNA-binding protein, Nop10p family. Nop10p is a nucleolar protein that is specifically associated with H/ACA snoRNAs. It is essential for normal 18S rRNA production and rRNA pseudouridylation by the ribonucleoprotein particles containing H/ACA snoRNAs (H/ACA snoRNPs). Nop10p is probably necessary for the stability of these RNPs.
Ribonuclease_T2	Ribonuclease T2 family. 
Ribosomal_S7e	Ribosomal protein S7e. 
RTX	RTX N-terminal domain. The RTX family of bacterial toxins are a group of cytolysins and cytotoxins. This Pfam family represents the N-terminal domain which is found in association with a glycine-rich repeat domain and hemolysinCabind pfam00353.
PWI	PWI domain. 
Sas10_Utp3_C	Sas10 C-terminal domain. This family contains a C-terminal presumed domain in Sas10 which hash been identified as a regulator of chromatin silencing.
DUF2607	Protein of unknown function (DUF2607). This family is conserved in Gammaproteobacteria. The function is not known.
PCI_Csn8	COP9 signalosome, subunit CSN8. This PCI_Csn8 domain is conserved from plants to humans. It is a signature protein motif found in components of CSN (COP9 signalosome). It functions as a structural scaffold for subunit-subunit interactions within the complex and is a key regulator of photomorphogenic development.
TraX	TraX protein. This family consists of several bacterial TraX proteins. TraX is responsible for the amino-terminal acetylation of F-pilin subunits.
DUF484	Protein of unknown function, DUF484. This family consists of several proteins of uncharacterised function.
DUF793	Protein of unknown function (DUF793). This family consists of several plant proteins of unknown function.
DUF1103	Repeat of unknown function (DUF1103). This family consists of several repeats of around 30 residues in length which are found specifically in mature-parasite-infected erythrocyte surface antigen proteins from Plasmodium falciparum. This family often found in conjunction with pfam00226.
Birna_RdRp	Birnavirus RNA dependent RNA polymerase (VP1). Birnaviruses are dsRNA viruses. This family corresponds to the RNA dependent RNA polymerase. This protein is also known as VP1. All of the birnavirus VP1 proteins contain conserved RdRp motifs that reside in the catalytic "palm" domain of all classes of polymerases. However, the birnavirus RdRps lack the highly conserved Gly-Asp-Asp (GDD) sequence, a component of the proposed catalytic site of this enzyme family that exists in the conserved motif VI of the palm domain of other RdRps.
Ribosomal_S13	Ribosomal protein S13/S18. This family includes ribosomal protein S13 from prokaryotes and S18 from eukaryotes.
DUF1118	Protein of unknown function (DUF1118). This family consists of several hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function.
Pga1	GPI-Mannosyltransferase II co-activator. Pga1 is found only in yeasts and not in mammals. It localises in the ER as a glycosylated integral membrane protein. It binds to the GPI-mannosyltransferase II subunit of the GPI and it is responsible for the second mannose addition to GPI precursors. The GPI-anchoring complex is a glycolipid that functions as a membrane anchor for many cell-surface proteins.
Redoxin	Redoxin. This family of redoxins includes peroxiredoxin, thioredoxin and glutaredoxin proteins.
DUF2418	Protein of unknown function (DUF2418). This is a conserved 100 residue central region of a family of proteins found in fungi. It carries a characteristic EYD sequence motif. The function is not known.
Transthyretin	HIUase/Transthyretin family. This family includes transthyretin that is a thyroid hormone-binding protein that transports thyroxine from the bloodstream to the brain. However, most of the sequences listed in this family do not bind thyroid hormones. They are actually enzymes of the purine catabolism that catalyse the conversion of 5-hydroxyisourate (HIU) to OHCU. HIU hydrolysis is the original function of the family and is conserved from bacteria to mammals; transthyretins arose by gene duplications in the vertebrate lineage. HIUases are distinguished in the alignment from the conserved C-terminal YRGS sequence.
UTRA	UTRA domain. The UbiC transcription regulator-associated (UTRA) domain is a conserved ligand-binding domain that has a similar fold to pfam04345. It is believed to modulate activity of bacterial transcription factors in response to binding small molecules.
LEA_6	Late embryogenesis abundant protein 18. This is a family of late embryogenesis-abundant proteins There is high accumulation of this protein in dry seeds, and in the roots of full-grown plants in response to dehydration and ABA (abscisic acid application) treatments. This LEA protein disappears after germination. It accumulates in growing regions of well irrigated hypocotyls and meristems suggesting a role in seedling growth resumption on rehydration. As a group the LEA proteins are highly hydrophilic, contain a high percentage of glycine residues, lack Cys and Trp residues and do not coagulate upon exposure to high temperature, and for these reasons are considered to be members of a group of proteins called hydrophilins. Expression of the protein is negatively regulated during etiolating growth, particularly in roots, in contrast to its expression patterns during normal growth.
DUF222	Domain of unknown function DUF222. This is a family of hypothetical proteins which includes a putative transposase.
Coatamer_beta_C	Coatamer beta C-terminal region. This family is found at the N-terminus of the coatamer beta subunit proteins (Beta-coat proteins). This C-terminal domain probably adapts the function of the N-terminal pfam01602 domain.
Ribosomal_L18ae	Ribosomal L18ae protein family. 
Herpes_LP	Herpesvirus leader protein. 
DUF159	Uncharacterised ACR, COG2135. 
HSP20	Hsp20/alpha crystallin family. 
PHO4	Phosphate transporter family. This family includes PHO-4 from Neurospora crassa which is a is a Na(+)-phosphate symporter. This family also contains the leukaemia virus receptor.
NAF1	NAF1 domain. This domain is involved in snoRNP biogenesis.
Ribosomal_S4e	Ribosomal family S4e. 
zf-C4H2	Zinc finger-containing protein. This is a family of proteins which appears to have a highly conserved zinc finger domain at the C terminal end, described as -C-X2-CH-X3-H-X5-C-X2-C-. The structure is predicted to contain a coiled coil. Members are annotated as being tumour-associated antigen HCA127 in humans but this could not confirmed.
Glu_cyclase_2	Glutamine cyclotransferase. This family of enzymes EC:2.3.2.5 catalyse the cyclization of free L-glutamine and N-terminal glutaminyl residues in proteins to pyroglutamate (5-oxoproline) and pyroglutamyl residues respectively. This family includes plant and bacterial enzymes and seems unrelated to the mammalian enzymes.
DUF1026	Protein of unknown function (DUF1026). This family consists of several uncharacterised bacterial and phage proteins. The function of this family is unknown.
ELFV_dehydrog_N	Glu/Leu/Phe/Val dehydrogenase, dimerisation domain. 
Autophagy_N	Autophagocytosis associated protein (Atg3), N-terminal domain. Autophagocytosis is a starvation-induced process responsible for transport of cytoplasmic proteins to the lysosome/vacuole. Atg3 is a ubiquitin like modifier that is topologically similar to the canonical E2 enzyme. It catalyses the conjugation of Atg8 and phosphatidylethanolamine.
DUF2343	Uncharacterised conserved protein (DUF2343). This entry is of a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. The function is not known.
Acetone_carb_G	Acetone carboxylase gamma subunit. Acetone carboxylase is the key enzyme of bacterial acetone metabolism, catalysing the condensation of acetone and CO(2) to form acetoacetate.
NAS	Nicotianamine synthase protein. Nicotianamine synthase EC:2.5.1.43 catalyses the trimerisation of S-adenosylmethionine to yield one molecule of nicotianamine. Nicotianamine has an important role in plant iron uptake mechanisms. Plants adopt two strategies (termed I and II) of iron acquisition. Strategy I is adopted by all higher plants except graminaceous plants, which adopt strategy II. In strategy I plants, the role of nicotianamine is not fully determined: possible roles include the formation of more stable complexes with ferrous than with ferric ion, which might serve as a sensor of the physiological status of iron within a plant, or which might be involved in the transport of iron. In strategy II (graminaceous) plants, nicotianamine is the key intermediate (and nicotianamine synthase the key enzyme) in the synthesis of the mugineic family (the only known family in plants) of phytosiderophores. Phytosiderophores are iron chelators whose secretion by the roots is greatly increased in instances of iron deficiency.
TLV_coat	ENV polyprotein (coat polyprotein). 
Supt5	Supt5 repeat. This short region of similarity is found in two tandem copies in Supt5 proteins that are involved in chromatin regulation. The function of this region is unknown.
DUF2434	Protein of unknown function (DUF2434). This is a family of proteins conserved in fungi. The function is not known.
Got1	Got1-like family. Traffic through the yeast Golgi complex depends on a member of the syntaxin family of SNARE proteins, Sed5, present in early Golgi cisternae. Got1 is thought to facilitate Sed5-dependent fusion events.
Cna_B	Cna protein B-type domain. This domain is found in Staphylococcus aureus collagen-binding surface protein. However, this region does not mediate collagen binding, the pfam05737 region carries out that function. The structure of the repetitive B-region has been solved and forms a beta sandwich structure. It is thought that this region forms a stalk in Staphylococcus aureus collagen-binding protein that presents the ligand binding domain away from the bacterial cell surface.
Alpha_E1_glycop	Alphavirus E1 glycoprotein. E1 forms a heterodimer with E2 pfam00943. The virus spikes are made up of 80 trimers of these heterodimers (sindbis virus).
zf-CHY	CHY zinc finger. This family of domains are likely to bind to zinc ions. They contain many conserved cysteine and histidine residues. We have named this domain after the N-terminal motif CXHY. This domain can be found in isolation in some proteins, but is also often associated with pfam00097. One of the proteins in this family is a mitochondrial intermembrane space protein called Hot13. This protein is involved in the assembly of small TIM complexes.
Ribosomal_L30	Ribosomal protein L30p/L7e. This family includes prokaryotic L30 and eukaryotic L7.
SPOR	Sporulation related domain. This 70 residue domain is composed of two 35 residue repeats found in proteins involved in sporulation and cell division such as FtsN, DedD, and CwlM. This domain is involved in binding peptidoglycan. Two tandem repeats fold into a pseudo-2-fold symmetric single-domain structure containing numerous contacts between the repeats. FtsN is an essential cell division protein with a simple bitopic topology, a short N-terminal cytoplasmic segment fused to a large carboxy periplasmic domain through a single transmembrane domain. These repeats lay at the periplasmic C-terminus. FtsN localises to the septum ring complex.
FimP	Fms-interacting protein. This entry carries part of the crucial 144 N-terminal residues of the FmiP protein, which is essential for the binding of the protein to the cytoplasmic domain of activated Fms-molecules in M-CSF induced haematopoietic differentiation of macrophages. The C-terminus contains a putative nuclear localisation sequence and a leucine zipper which suggest further, as yet unknown, nuclear functions. The level of FMIP expression might form a threshold that determines whether cells differentiate into macrophages or into granulocytes.
Glycos_transf_3	Glycosyl transferase family, a/b domain. This family includes anthranilate phosphoribosyltransferase (TrpD), thymidine phosphorylase. All these proteins can transfer a phosphorylated ribose substrate.
SEP	SEP domain. The SEP domain is named after Saccharomyces cerevisiae Shp1, Drosophila melanogaster eyes closed gene (eyc), and vertebrate p47. In p47, the SEP domain has been shown to bind to and inhibit the cysteine protease cathepsin L. Most SEP domains are succeeded closely by a UBX domain.
Ribosomal_L40e	Ribosomal L40e family. Bovine L40 has been identified as a secondary RNA binding protein. L40 is fused to a ubiquitin protein.
FbpA	Fibronectin-binding protein A N-terminus (FbpA). This family consists of the N-terminal region of the prokaryotic fibronectin-binding protein. Fibronectin binding is considered to be an important virulence factor in streptococcal infections. Fibronectin is a dimeric glycoprotein that is present in a soluble form in plasma and extracellular fluids; it is also present in a fibrillar form on cell surfaces. Both the soluble and cellular forms of fibronectin may be incorporated into the extracellular tissue matrix. While fibronectin has critical roles in eukaryotic cellular processes, such as adhesion, migration and differentiation, it is also a substrate for the attachment of bacteria. The binding of pathogenic Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus aureus to epithelial cells via fibronectin facilitates their internalisation and systemic spread within the host.
ExoD	Exopolysaccharide synthesis, ExoD. Among the bacterial genes required for nodule invasion are the exo genes. These genes are involved in the production of an extracellular polysaccharide. Mutations in the exoD result in altered exopolysaccharide production and defects in nodule invasion.
DUF2392	Protein of unknown function (DUF2392). This is a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. The function is not known. It carries a characteristic GRG sequence motif.
Phage_G	Major spike protein (G protein). This is a family of proteins from single-stranded DNA bacteriophages. Five G proteins, each a tight beta barrel, from twelve surface spikes.
ATP-synt_DE	ATP synthase, Delta/Epsilon chain, long alpha-helix domain. Part of the ATP synthase CF(1). These subunits are part of the head unit of the ATP synthase. This subunit is called epsilon in bacteria and delta in mitochondria. In bacteria the delta (D) subunit is equivalent to the mitochondrial Oligomycin sensitive subunit, OSCP (pfam00213).
BRAP2	BRCA1-associated protein 2. These proteins include BRCA1-associated protein 2 (BRAP2), which binds nuclear localisation signals (NLSs) in vitro and in yeast two-hybrid screening. These proteins share a region of sequence similarity at their N terminus. They also have pfam02148 at the C terminus.
SCO1-SenC	SCO1/SenC. This family is involved in biogenesis of respiratory and photosynthetic systems. SCO1 is required for a post-translational step in the accumulation of subunits COXI and COXII of cytochrome c oxidase. SenC is required for optimal cytochrome c oxidase activity and maximal induction of genes encoding the light-harvesting and reaction centre complexes of R. capsulatus.
DUF493	Protein of unknown function (DUF493). 
Pollen_allerg_2	Ribonuclease (pollen allergen). This family contains grass pollen proteins of group V. One member has been shown to possess ribonuclease activity.
IP_trans	Phosphatidylinositol transfer protein. Along with the structurally unrelated Sec14p family (found in pfam00650), this family can bind/exchange one molecule of phosphatidylinositol (PI) or phosphatidylcholine (PC) and thus aids their transfer between different membrane compartments. There are three sub-families - all share an N-terminal PITP-like domain, whose sequence is highly conserved. It is described as consisting of three regions. The N-terminal region is thought to bind the lipid and contains two helices and an eight-stranded, mostly antiparallel beta-sheet. An intervening loop region, which is thought to play a role in protein-protein interactions, separates this from the C-terminal region, which exhibits the greatest sequence variation and may be involved in membrane binding. PITP alpha has a 16-fold greater affinity for PI than PC. Together with PITP beta, it is expressed ubiquitously in all tissues.
SecD_SecF	Protein export membrane protein. This family consists of various prokaryotic SecD and SecF protein export membrane proteins. This SecD and SecF proteins are part of the multimeric protein export complex comprising SecA, D, E, F, G, Y, and YajC. SecD and SecF are required to maintain a proton motive force.
DUF1909	Domain of unknown function (DUF1909). This domain is found in a set of hypothetical eukaryotic proteins.
Use1	Membrane fusion protein Use1. This entry is of a family of proteins all approximately 300 residues in length. The proteins have a single C-terminal trans-membrane domain and a SNARE [soluble NSF (N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein) attachment protein receptor] domain of approximately 60 residues. The SNARE domains are essential for membrane fusion and are conserved from yeasts to humans. Use1 is one of the three protein subunits that make up the SNARE complex and it is specifically required for Golgi-endoplasmic reticulum retrograde transport.
PGM_PMM_III	Phosphoglucomutase/phosphomannomutase, alpha/beta/alpha domain III. 
Bap31	B-cell receptor-associated protein 31-like. Bap31 is a polytopic integral protein of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and a substrate of caspase-8. Bap31 is cleaved within its cytosolic domain, generating pro-apoptotic p20 Bap31.
Bac_surface_Ag	Surface antigen. This entry includes the following surface antigens; D15 antigen from H.influenzae, OMA87 from P.multocida, OMP85 from N.meningitidis and N.gonorrhoeae. The family also includes a number of eukaryotic proteins that are members of the UPF0140 family. There also appears to be a relationship to pfam03865 (personal obs: C Yeats). In eukaryotes, it appears that these proteins are not surface antigens; Saccharomyces cerevisiae YNL026W (SAM50) is an essential component of the Sorting and Assembly Machinery (SAM) of the mitochondrial outer membrane. The protein was localised to the mitochondria.
PAP1	Transcription factor PAP1. The transcription factor Pap1 regulates antioxidant-gene transcription in response to H2O2. This region is cysteine rich. Alkylation of cysteine residues following treatment with a cysteine alkylating agent can mask the accessibility of the nuclear exporter Crm1, triggering nuclear accumulation and Pap1 dependent transcriptional expression.
Vps26	Vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 26. Vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein (Vps) 26 is one of around 50 proteins involved in protein trafficking. In particular, Vps26 assembles into a retromer complex with at least four other proteins Vps5, Vps17, Vps29 and Vps35. This family also contains Down syndrome critical region 3/A.
PI3_PI4_kinase	Phosphatidylinositol 3- and 4-kinase. Some members of this family probably do not have lipid kinase activity and are protein kinases.
PMG	PMG protein. This family consists of several mouse anagen-specific protein mKAP13 (PMG1 and PMG2). PMG1 and 2 contain characteristic repeats reminiscent of the keratin-associated proteins (KAPs). Both genes are expressed in growing hair follicles in skin as well as in sebaceous and eccrine sweat glands. Interestingly, expression is also detected in the mammary epithelium where it is limited to the onset of the pubertal growth phase and is independent of ovarian hormones. Their broad, developmentally controlled expression pattern, together with their unique amino acid composition, demonstrate that pmg-1 and pmg-2 constitute a novel KAP gene family participating in the differentiation of all epithelial cells forming the epidermal appendages.
Ldh_1_C	lactate/malate dehydrogenase, alpha/beta C-terminal domain. L-lactate dehydrogenases are metabolic enzymes which catalyse the conversion of L-lactate to pyruvate, the last step in anaerobic glycolysis. L-2-hydroxyisocaproate dehydrogenases are also members of the family. Malate dehydrogenases catalyse the interconversion of malate to oxaloacetate. The enzyme participates in the citric acid cycle. L-lactate dehydrogenase is also found as a lens crystallin in bird and crocodile eyes.
DUF537	Protein of unknown function, DUF537. This family represents a conserved region of unknown function within plant proteins. Some family members have one or more zinc-finger motifs towards the C-terminus.
DUF895	Eukaryotic protein of unknown function (DUF895). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
MIF4G_like_2	MIF4G like. Members of this family are involved in mediating U snRNA export from the nucleus. They adopt a highly helical structure, wherein the polypeptide chain forms a right-handed solenoid. At the tertiary level, the domain is composed of a superhelical arrangement of successive antiparallel pairs of helices.
ClpS	ATP-dependent Clp protease adaptor protein ClpS. In the bacterial cytosol, ATP-dependent protein degradation is performed by several different chaperone-protease pairs, including ClpAP. ClpS directly influences the ClpAP machine by binding to the N-terminal domain of the chaperone ClpA. The degradation of ClpAP substrates, both SsrA-tagged proteins and ClpA itself, is specifically inhibited by ClpS. ClpS modifies ClpA substrate specificity, potentially redirecting degradation by ClpAP toward aggregated proteins.
SGT1	SGT1 protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic SGT1 proteins. Human SGT1 or hSGT1 is known to suppress GCR2 and is highly expressed in the muscle and heart. The function of this family is unknown although it has been speculated that SGT1 may be functionally analogous to the Gcr2p protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae which is known to be a regulatory factor of glycolytic gene expression.
DUF1990	Domain of unknown function (DUF1990). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised.
PHB_depo_C	PHB de-polymerase C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus of bacterial poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) de-polymerase. This degrades PHB granules to oligomers and monomers of 3-hydroxy-butyric acid.
Suc_Fer-like	Sucrase/ferredoxin-like. This family contains a number of bacterial and eukaryotic proteins approximately 400 residues long that resemble ferredoxin and appear to have sucrolytic activity.
CBM_2	Cellulose binding domain. Two tryptophan residues are involved in cellulose binding. Cellulose binding domain found in bacteria.
DUF844	Baculovirus protein of unknown function (DUF844). This family consists of several Baculovirus sequences of between 350 and 380 residues long. The family has no known function.
Nucleotid_trans	Nucleotide-diphospho-sugar transferase. Proteins in this family have been been predicted to be nucleotide-diphospho-sugar transferases.
Hamartin	Hamartin protein. This family includes the hamartin protein which is thought to function as a tumour suppressor. The hamartin protein interacts with the tuberin protein pfam03542. Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder and is characterised by the presence of hamartomas in many organs, such as brain, skin, heart, lung, and kidney. It is caused by mutation either TSC1 or TSC2 tumour suppressor gene. TSC1 encodes a protein, hamartin, containing two coiled-coil regions, which have been shown to mediate binding to tuberin. The TSC2 gene codes for tuberin pfam03542. These two proteins function within the same pathway(s) regulating cell cycle, cell growth, adhesion, and vesicular trafficking.
POTRA_2	POTRA domain, ShlB-type. The POTRA domain (for polypeptide-transport-associated domain) is found towards the N-terminus of ShlB family proteins (pfam03865). ShlB is important in the secretion and activation of the haemolysin ShlA. It has been postulated that the POTRA domain has a chaperone-like function over ShlA; it may fold back into the C-terminal beta-barrel channel.
PRELI	PRELI-like family. This family includes a conserved region found in the PRELI protein and yeast YLR168C gene MSF1 product. The function of this protein is unknown, though it is thought to be involved in intra-mitochondrial protein sorting. This region is also found in a number of other eukaryotic proteins.
Terpene_synth_C	Terpene synthase family, metal binding domain. It has been suggested that this gene family be designated tps (for terpene synthase). It has been split into six subgroups on the basis of phylogeny, called tpsa-tpsf. tpsa includes vetispiridiene synthase, 5-epi- aristolochene synthase, and (+)-delta-cadinene synthase. tpsb includes (-)-limonene synthase. tpsc includes kaurene synthase A. tpsd includes taxadiene synthase, pinene synthase, and myrcene synthase. tpse includes kaurene synthase B. tpsf includes linalool synthase.
V-SNARE	Vesicle transport v-SNARE protein. V-SNARE proteins are required for protein traffic between eukaryotic organelles. The v-SNAREs on transport vesicles interact with t-SNAREs on target membranes in order to facilitate this.
FAD_binding_7	FAD binding domain of DNA photolyase. 
DUF334	Domain of unknown function (DUF334). Staphylococcus aureus plasmid proteins with no characterised function.
EF1G	Elongation factor 1 gamma, conserved domain. 
RanBPM_CRA	Ran binding protein in the microtubule-organising centre. RanBPM is a scaffolding protein and is important in regulating cellular function in both the immune system and the nervous system. This domain is at the C-terminus of the proteins and is the binding domain for the CRA motif (for CT11-RanBPM), which is comprised of approximately 100 amino acids at the C terminal of RanBPM. It was found to be important for the interaction of RanBPM with fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), but its functional significance has yet to be determined.
Plant_tran	Plant transposon protein. This family contains plant transposases which are putative members of the PIF / Ping-Pong family.
Syntaxin-6_N	Syntaxin 6, N-terminal. Members of this family, which are found in the amino terminus of various SNARE proteins, adopt a structure consisting of an antiparallel three-helix bundle. Their exact function has not been determined, though it is known that they regulate the SNARE motif, as well as mediate various protein-protein interactions involved in membrane-transport.
YL1_C	YL1 nuclear protein C-terminal domain. This domain is found in proteins of the YL1 family. These proteins have been shown to be DNA-binding and may be a transcription factor. This domain is found in proteins that are not YL1 proteins.
MCM	MCM2/3/5 family. 
AP_endonuc_2	Xylose isomerase-like TIM barrel. This TIM alpha/beta barrel structure is found in xylose isomerase and in endonuclease IV (EC:3.1.21.2). This domain is also found in the N termini of bacterial myo-inositol catabolism proteins. These are involved in the myo-inositol catabolism pathway, and is required for growth on myo-inositol in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae.
HMGL-like	HMGL-like. This family contains a diverse set of enzymes. These include various aldolases and a region of pyruvate carboxylase.
NPP1	Necrosis inducing protein (NPP1). This family consists of several NPP1 like necrosis inducing proteins from oomycetes, fungi and bacteria. Infiltration of NPP1 into leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana plants result in transcript accumulation of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes, production of ROS and ethylene, callose apposition, and HR-like cell death.
APG9	Autophagy protein Apg9. In yeast, 15 Apg proteins coordinate the formation of autophagosomes. Autophagy is a bulk degradation process induced by starvation in eukaryotic cells. Apg9 plays a direct role in the formation of the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting and autophagic vesicles, possibly serving as a marker for a specialised compartment essential for these vesicle-mediated alternative targeting pathways.
DUF2363	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2363). This is a region of 120 amino acids of a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. The function is not known.
DUF590	Protein of unknown function, DUF590. This family contains several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
Ribosomal_S3_C	Ribosomal protein S3, C-terminal domain. This family contains a central domain pfam00013, hence the amino and carboxyl terminal domains are stored separately. This is a minimal carboxyl-terminal domain. Some are much longer.
P-II	Nitrogen regulatory protein P-II. P-II modulates the activity of glutamine synthetase.
DUF2360	Predicted coiled-coil domain-containing protein (DUF2360). This is the conserved 140 amino acid region of a family of proteins conserved from nematodes to humans. One Caenorhabditis elegans member is annotated as a Daf-16-dependent longevity protein 1 but this could not be confirmed. The function is unknown.
TPR_2	Tetratricopeptide repeat. This Pfam entry includes outlying Tetratricopeptide-like repeats (TPR) that are not matched by pfam00515.
DUF1713	Mitochondrial domain of unknown function (DUF1713). This domain is found at the C terminal end of mitochondrial proteins of unknown function.
Psb28	Psb28 protein. Psb28 is a 13 kDa soluble protein that is directly assembled in dimeric PSII supercomplexes. The negatively charged N-terminal region is essential for this process. This protein was formerly known as PsbW, but PsbW is now reserved for pfam07123.
GerE	Bacterial regulatory proteins, luxR family. 
Glyco_transf_5	Starch synthase catalytic domain. 
AAA_5	ATPase family associated with various cellular activities (AAA). This Pfam entry includes some of the AAA proteins not detected by the pfam00004 model.
Tyr_Deacylase	D-Tyr-tRNA(Tyr) deacylase. This family comprises of several D-Tyr-tRNA(Tyr) deacylase proteins. Cell growth inhibition by several d-amino acids can be explained by an in vivo production of d-aminoacyl-tRNA molecules. Escherichia coli and yeast cells express an enzyme, d-Tyr-tRNA(Tyr) deacylase, capable of recycling such d-aminoacyl-tRNA molecules into free tRNA and d-amino acid. Accordingly, upon inactivation of the genes of the above deacylases, the toxicity of d-amino acids increases. Orthologues of the deacylase are found in many cells.
DUF1800	Protein of unknown function (DUF1800). This is a family of large bacterial proteins of unknown function.
Pox_A32	Poxvirus A32 protein. The A32 protein is thought to be involved in viral DNA packaging.
LRR_2	Leucine Rich Repeat. This Pfam entry includes some LRRs that fail to be detected with the pfam00560 model.
HisKA	His Kinase A (phosphoacceptor) domain. Dimerisation and phosphoacceptor domain of histidine kinases.
BenE	Benzoate membrane transport protein. 
Methyltransf_6	Demethylmenaquinone methyltransferase. Members of this family are demethylmenaquinone methyltransferases that convert dimethylmenaquinone (DMK) to menaquinone (MK) in the final step of menaquinone biosynthesis. This region is also found at the C-terminus of the DlpA protein.
DUF1403	Protein of unknown function (DUF1403). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 320 residues in length. Members of this family are mainly found in Rhizobium and Agrobacterium species. The function of this family is unknown.
ERM	Ezrin/radixin/moesin family. This family of proteins contain a band 4.1 domain (pfam00373), at their amino terminus. This family represents the rest of these proteins.
Complex1_LYR	Complex 1 protein (LYR family). Proteins in this family have been identified as a component of the higher eukaryotic NADH complex. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the Isd11 protein has been shown to play a role in Fe/S cluster biogenesis in mitochondria. We have named this family LYR after a highly conserved tripeptide motif close to the N-terminus of these proteins.
RVP_2	Retroviral aspartyl protease. Single domain aspartyl proteases from retroviruses, retrotransposons, and badnaviruses (plant dsDNA viruses). These proteases are generally part of a larger polyprotein; usually pol, more rarely gag. Retroviral proteases appear to be homologous to a single domain of the two-domain eukaryotic aspartyl proteases
Pox_A3L	Poxvirus A3L Protein. This family consists of several poxvirus A3L or A2_5L proteins.
DLH	Dienelactone hydrolase family. 
DUF2346	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2346). Members of this family of proteins have no known function.
Myosin_HC-like	Myosin II heavy chain-like. This family represents a conserved region within a number of myosin II heavy chain-like proteins that seem to be specific to Arabidopsis thaliana.
HMG-CoA_red	Hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase. The HMG-CoA reductases catalyse the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, which is the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of isoprenoids like cholesterol. Probably because of the critical role of this enzyme in cholesterol homeostasis, mammalian HMG-CoA reductase is heavily regulated at the transcriptional, translational, and post-translational levels.
THOC7	Tho complex subunit 7. The Tho complex is involved in transcription elongation and mRNA export from the nucleus.
AHSA1	Activator of Hsp90 ATPase homolog 1-like protein. This family includes eukaryotic, prokaryotic and archaeal proteins that bear similarity to a C-terminal region of human activator of 90 kDa heat shock protein ATPase homolog 1 (AHSA1/p38). This protein is known to interact with the middle domain of Hsp90, and stimulate its ATPase activity. It is probably a general upregulator of Hsp90 function, particularly contributing to its efficiency in conditions of increased stress. p38 is also known to interact with the cytoplasmic domain of the VSV G protein, and may thus be involved in protein transport. It has also been reported as being underexpressed in Down's syndrome. This region is found repeated in two members of this family.
PaRep2b	PaRep2b protein. This is a family of proteins, expressed in the crenarchaeon Pyrobaculum aerophilum, whose members are variable in length and level of conservation. The presence of numerous frameshifts and internal stop codons in multiple alignments are thought to indicate that most family members are no longer functional.
Ku_PK_bind	Ku C terminal domain like. The non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway is one method by which double stranded breaks in chromosomal DNA are repaired. Ku is a component of a multi-protein complex that is involved in the NHEJ. Ku has affinity for DNA ends and recruits the DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs). This domain is found at the C terminal of Ku which binds to DNA-PKcs.
VPS28	VPS28 protein. 
Viral_Beta_CD	Viral Beta C/D like family. Family of ssRNA positive-strand viral proteins. Conserved region found in the Beta C and Beta D transcripts.
DNA_processg_A	DNA recombination-mediator protein A. The SMF family, of DNA processing chain A, dprA, are a group of bacterial proteins. In H. pylori, dprA is required for natural chromosomal and plasmid transformation. It has now been shown that DprA is found to bind cooperatively to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) and to interact with RecA. In the process, DprA-RecA-ssDNA filaments are produced and these filaments catalyse the homology-dependent formation of joint molecules. While the E.coli SSB protein limits access of RecA to ssDNA, DprA alleviates this barrier. It is proposed that DprA is a new member of the recombination-mediator protein family, dedicated to natural bacterial transformation.
Peptidase_C1	Papain family cysteine protease. 
Extensin_2	Extensin-like region. 
PQQ	PQQ enzyme repeat. The family represent a single repeat of a beta propeller. This propeller has been found in several enzymes which utilise pyrrolo-quinoline quinone as a prosthetic group.
HTH_AraC	Bacterial regulatory helix-turn-helix proteins, AraC family. In the absence of arabinose, the N-terminal arm of AraC binds to the DNA binding domain (pfam00165) and helps to hold the two DNA binding domains in a relative orientation that favours DNA looping. In the presence of arabinose, the arms bind over the arabinose on the dimerisation domain, thus freeing the DNA-binding domains. The freed DNA-binding domains are then able to assume a conformation suitable for binding to the adjacent DNA sites that are utilised when AraC activates transcription, and hence AraC ceases looping the DNA when arabinose is added.
GlutR_N	Glutamyl-tRNAGlu reductase, N-terminal domain. 
UPF0197	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0197). This family of proteins is functionally uncharacterised.
Caudal_act	Caudal like protein activation region. This family consists of the amino termini of proteins belonging to the caudal-related homeobox protein family. This region is thought to mediate transcription activation. The level of activation caused by mouse Cdx2 is affected by phosphorylation at serine 60 via the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. Caudal family proteins are involved in the transcriptional regulation of multiple genes expressed in the intestinal epithelium, and are important in differentiation and maintenance of the intestinal epithelial lining. Caudal proteins always have a homeobox DNA binding domain (pfam00046).
UbiA	UbiA prenyltransferase family. 
4HBT	Thioesterase superfamily. This family contains a wide variety of enzymes, principally thioesterases. This family includes 4HBT (EC 3.1.2.23) which catalyses the final step in the biosynthesis of 4-hydroxybenzoate from 4-chlorobenzoate in the soil dwelling microbe Pseudomonas CBS-3. This family includes various cytosolic long-chain acyl-CoA thioester hydrolases. Long-chain acyl-CoA hydrolases hydrolyse palmitoyl-CoA to CoA and palmitate, they also catalyse the hydrolysis of other long chain fatty acyl-CoA thioesters.
DUF1600	Protein of unknown function (DUF1600). These proteins appear to be specific to Mycoplasma species.
MAP7	MAP7 (E-MAP-115) family. The organisation of microtubules varies with the cell type and is presumably controlled by tissue-specific microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs). The 115-kDa epithelial MAP (E-MAP-115/MAP7) has been identified as a microtubule-stabilising protein predominantly expressed in cell lines of epithelial origin. The binding of this microtubule associated protein is nucleotide independent.
DUF241	Arabidopsis protein of unknown function. This family represents a number of Arabidopsis proteins. Their functions are unknown.
Glyco_hydro_35	Glycosyl hydrolases family 35. 
DUF1556	Protein of unknown function (DUF1556). 
Eeig1	Oestrogen-responsive protein Fam102A-B. This is the N-terminal 150 residues of a family of conserved proteins which are called both Fam102A, or Fam102B, and Eeig1 (early oestrogen-responsive gene product 1) proteins.
RrnaAD	Ribosomal RNA adenine dimethylase. 
dsrm	Double-stranded RNA binding motif. Sequences gathered for seed by HMM_iterative_training Putative motif shared by proteins that bind to dsRNA. At least some DSRM proteins seem to bind to specific RNA targets. Exemplified by Staufen, which is involved in localisation of at least five different mRNAs in the early Drosophila embryo. Also by interferon-induced protein kinase in humans, which is part of the cellular response to dsRNA.
COBRA	COBRA-like protein. Family of plant proteins are designated COBRA-like (COBL) proteins. The 12 Arabidopsis members of the family are all GPI-liked. Some members of this family are annotated as phytochelatin synthase, but these annotations are incorrect.
Lg106	Lg106-like protein. The sequences in this family are derived from plant proteins and are similar to a polypeptide expressed by Lemna gibba. Lg106 mRNA was found to be more abundant in dark-treated plants than in those grown in continuous white light conditions (Plant Mol Biol 1988;11:673-681). The function of this polypeptide is unknown.
LpxK	Tetraacyldisaccharide-1-P 4'-kinase. This family consists of tetraacyldisaccharide-1-P 4'-kinase also known as Lipid-A 4'-kinase or Lipid A biosynthesis protein LpxK, EC:2.7.1.130. This enzyme catalyses the reaction: ATP + 2,3-bis(3-hydroxytetradecanoyl)-D -glucosaminyl-(beta-D-1,6)-2,3-bis(3-hydroxytetradecanoyl)-D-glu cosaminyl beta-phosphate <=> ADP + 2,3,2',3'-tetrakis(3-hydroxytetradecanoyl)-D- glucosaminyl-1,6-beta-D-glucosamine 1,4'-bisphosphate. This enzyme is involved in the synthesis of lipid A portion of the bacterial lipopolysaccharide layer (LPS). The family contains a P-loop motif at the N terminus.
tRNA_anti	OB-fold nucleic acid binding domain. This family contains OB-fold domains that bind to nucleic acids. The family includes the anti-codon binding domain of lysyl, aspartyl, and asparaginyl -tRNA synthetases (See pfam00152). Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyse the addition of an amino acid to the appropriate tRNA molecule EC:6.1.1.-. This family also includes part of RecG helicase involved in DNA repair. Replication factor A is a heterotrimeric complex, that contains a subunit in this family. This domain is also found at the C-terminus of bacterial DNA polymerase III alpha chain.
ASF1_hist_chap	ASF1 like histone chaperone. This family includes the yeast and human ASF1 protein. These proteins have histone chaperone activity. ASF1 participates in both the replication-dependent and replication-independent pathways. The structure three-dimensional has been determined as a a compact immunoglobulin-like beta sandwich fold topped by three helical linkers.
FAD_binding_9	Siderophore-interacting FAD-binding domain. 
DUF2309	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2309). Members of this family of hypothetical bacterial proteins have no known function.
DUF594	Protein of unknown function, DUF594. 
DUF1716	Eukaryotic domain of unknown function (DUF1716). This domain is found in eukaryotic proteins. A human nuclear protein with this domain is thought to have a role in apoptosis.
BLVR	Bovine leukaemia virus receptor (BLVR). This family consists of several bovine specific leukaemia virus receptors which are thought to function as transmembrane proteins, although their exact function is unknown.
DUF2396	Protein of unknown function (DUF2396). These conserved hypothetical proteins have so far been found only in the Cyanobacteria. They are about 170 amino acids long and contain a CxxCx(14)CxxH motif near the N-terminus.
Glyco_hydro_32C	Glycosyl hydrolases family 32 C terminal. This domain corresponds to the C terminal domain of glycosyl hydrolase family 32. It forms a beta sandwich module.
Acetyltransf_1	Acetyltransferase (GNAT) family. This family contains proteins with N-acetyltransferase functions such as Elp3-related proteins.
Mog1	Ran-interacting Mog1 protein. Segregation of nuclear and cytoplasmic processes facilitates regulation of many eukaryotic cellular functions such as gene expression and cell cycle progression. Trafficking through the nuclear pore requires a number of highly conserved soluble factors that escort macromolecular substrates into and out of the nucleus. The Mog1 protein has been shown to interact with RanGTP which stimulates guanine nucleotide release, suggesting Mog1 regulates the nuclear transport functions of Ran. The human homologue of Mog1 is thought to be alternatively spliced.
NDUF_B7	NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase B18 subunit (NDUFB7). This family consists of several NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase B18 subunit proteins from different eukaryotic organisms. Oxidative phosphorylation is the well-characterised process in which ATP, the principal carrier of chemical energy of individual cells, is produced due to a mitochondrial proton gradient formed by the transfer of electrons from NADH and FADH2 to molecular oxygen. The oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system is located in the mitochondrial inner membrane and consists of five multi-subunit enzyme complexes and two small electron carriers: coenzyme Q10 and cytochrome C. At least 70 structural proteins involved in the formation of the whole OXPHOS system are encoded by nuclear genes, whereas 13 structural proteins are encoded by the mitochondrial genome. Deficiency of NADH ubiquinone oxidoreductase, the first enzyme complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, is one of the most frequent causes of human mitochondrial encephalomyopathies.
DUF1503	Protein of unknown function (DUF1503). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 250 residues in length. Members of this family seem to be found exclusively in Streptomyces coelicolor and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The function of this family is unknown.
TF_Otx	Otx1 transcription factor. 
SerH	Cell surface immobilisation antigen SerH. This family consists of several cell surface immobilisation antigen SerH proteins which seem to be specific to Tetrahymena thermophila. The SerH locus of Tetrahymena thermophila is one of several paralogous loci with genes encoding variants of the major cell surface protein known as the immobilisation antigen (i-ag).
SoxG	Sarcosine oxidase, gamma subunit family. Sarcosine oxidase is a hetero-tetrameric enzyme that contains both covalently bound FMN and non-covalently bound FAD and NAD(+). This enzyme catalyses the oxidative demethylation of sarcosine to yield glycine, H2O2, and 5,10-CH2-tetrahydrofolate (H4folate) in a reaction requiring H4folate and O2.
DUF916	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF916). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
UQ_con	Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. Proteins destined for proteasome-mediated degradation may be ubiquitinated. Ubiquitination follows conjugation of ubiquitin to a conserved cysteine residue of UBC homologues. TSG101 is one of several UBC homologues that lacks this active site cysteine.
Dynamitin	Dynamitin. Dynamitin is a subunit of the microtubule-dependent motor complex and in implicated in cell adhesion by binding to macrophage-enriched myristoylated alanine-rice C kinase substrate (MacMARCKS).
TIL	Trypsin Inhibitor like cysteine rich domain. This family contains trypsin inhibitors as well as a domain found in many extracellular proteins. The domain typically contains ten cysteine residues that form five disulphide bonds. The cysteine residues that form the disulphide bonds are 1-7, 2-6, 3-5, 4-10 and 8-9.
CAF1	CAF1 family ribonuclease. The major pathways of mRNA turnover in eukaryotes initiate with shortening of the polyA tail. CAF1 encodes a critical component of the major cytoplasmic deadenylase in yeast. Both Caf1p is required for normal mRNA deadenylation in vivo and localises to the cytoplasm. Caf1p copurifies with a Ccr4p-dependent polyA-specific exonuclease activity. Some members of this family include and inserted RNA binding domain pfam01424. This family of proteins is related to other exonucleases pfam00929 (Bateman A pers. obs.). The crystal structure of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pop2 has been resolved at 2.3 Angstrom#resolution.
CagZ	CagZ. CagZ is a 23 kDa protein consisting of a single compact L-shaped domain, composed of seven alpha-helices that run antiparallel to each other. 70% of the residues are in alpha-helix conformation and no beta-sheet is present. CagZ is essential for the translocation of the pathogenic protein CagA into host cells.
MinC_C	Septum formation inhibitor MinC, C-terminal domain. In Escherichia coli ftsZ assembles into a Z ring at midcell while assembly at polar sites is prevented by the min system. MinC, a component of this system, is an inhibitor of FtsZ assembly that is positioned within the cell by interaction with MinDE. MinC is an oligomer, probably a dimer. The C terminal half of MinC is the most conserved and interacts with MinD. The N terminal half is thought interact with FtsZ.
DUF973	Protein of unknown function (DUF973). This family consists of several hypothetical archaeal proteins of unknown function.
RED_N	RED-like protein N-terminal region. This family contains sequences that are similar to the N-terminal region of Red protein. This and related proteins contain a RED repeat which consists of a number of RE and RD sequence elements. The region in question has several conserved NLS sequences and a putative trimeric coiled-coil region, suggesting that these proteins are expressed in the nucleus. The function of Red protein is unknown, but efficient sequestration to nuclear bodies suggests that its expression may be tightly regulated of that the protein self-aggregates extremely efficiently.
NADPH_Ox	Respiratory burst NADPH oxidase. This domain is found in plant proteins such as respiratory burst NADPH oxidase proteins which produce reactive oxygen species as a defence mechanism. It tends to occur to the N-terminus of an EF-hand (pfam00036), which suggests a direct regulatory effect of Ca2+ on the activity of the NADPH oxidase in plants.
DUF1768	Domain of unknown function (DUF1768). This is a domain of unknown function. It is alpha helical in structure.
RNA_pol_Rpb2_7	RNA polymerase Rpb2, domain 7. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). Rpb2 is the second largest subunit of the RNA polymerase. This domain comprised of the structural domains anchor and clamp. The clamp region (C-terminal) contains a zinc-binding motif. The clamp region is named due to its interaction with the clamp domain found in Rpb1. The domain also contains a region termed "switch 4". The switches within the polymerase are thought to signal different stages of transcription.
HABP4_PAI-RBP1	Hyaluronan / mRNA binding family. This family includes the HABP4 family of hyaluronan-binding proteins, and the PAI-1 mRNA-binding protein, PAI-RBP1. HABP4 has been observed to bind hyaluronan (a glucosaminoglycan), but it is not known whether this is its primary role in vivo. It has also been observed to bind RNA, but with a lower affinity than that for hyaluronan. PAI-1 mRNA-binding protein specifically binds the mRNA of type-1 plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1), and is thought to be involved in regulation of mRNA stability. However, in both cases, the sequence motifs predicted to be important for ligand binding are not conserved throughout the family, so it is not known whether members of this family share a common function.
SWIB	SWIB/MDM2 domain. This family includes the SWIB domain and the MDM2 domain. The p53-associated protein (MDM2) is an inhibitor of the p53 tumour suppressor gene binding the transactivation domain and down regulating the ability of p53 to activate transcription. This family contains the p53 binding domain of MDM2.
DUF580	Protein of unknown function, DUF580. 
Hpr_kinase_C	HPr Serine kinase C-terminus. This family represents the C terminal kinase domain of Hpr Serine/threonine kinase PtsK. This kinase is the sensor in a multicomponent phosphorelay system in control of carbon catabolic repression in bacteria. This kinase in unusual in that it recognises the tertiary structure of its target and is a member of a novel family unrelated to any previously described protein phosphorylating enzymes. X-ray analysis of the full-length crystalline enzyme from Staphylococcus xylosus at a resolution of 1.95 A shows the enzyme to consist of two clearly separated domains that are assembled in a hexameric structure resembling a three-bladed propeller.
Spindle_Spc25	Chromosome segregation protein (Spc25, Csm1, Pcs1). This is a family of chromosome segregation proteins. It contains Spc25, which is a conserved eukaryotic kinetochore protein involved in cell division. In fungi the Spc25 protein is a subunit of the Nuf2-Ndc80 complex, and in vertebrates it forms part of the Ndc80 complex. The family also contains Csm1 which in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is part of the monopolin complex. This protein has been shown to promote monoorientation during meiosis and also plays a mitotic role in DNA replication.
PRA1	PRA1 family protein. This family includes the PRA1 (Prenylated rab acceptor) protein which is a Rab guanine dissociation inhibitor (GDI) displacement factor. This family also includes the glutamate transporter EAAC1 interacting protein GTRAP3-18.
Glyco_transf_15	Glycolipid 2-alpha-mannosyltransferase. This is a family of alpha-1,2 mannosyl-transferases involved in N-linked and O-linked glycosylation of proteins. Some of the enzymes in this family have been shown to be involved in O- and N-linked glycan modifications in the Golgi.
AsmA	AsmA family. The AsmA gene, whose product is involved in the assembly of outer membrane proteins in Escherichia coli. AsmA mutations were isolated as extragenic suppressors of an OmpF assembly mutant. AsmA may have a role in LPS biogenesis.
Trp_Tyr_perm	Tryptophan/tyrosine permease family. 
PaO	Pheophorbide a oxygenase. This domain is found in bacterial and plant proteins to the C-terminus of a Rieske 2Fe-2S domain (pfam00355). One of the proteins the domain is found in is Pheophorbide a oxygenase (PaO) which seems to be a key regulator of chlorophyll catabolism. Arabidopsis PaO (AtPaO) is a Rieske-type 2Fe-2S enzyme that is identical to Arabidopsis accelerated cell death 1 and homologous to lethal leaf spot 1 (LLS1) of maize, in which the domain described here is also found.
DUF775	Protein of unknown function (DUF775). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
IPP-2	Protein phosphatase inhibitor 2 (IPP-2). Protein phosphotase inhibitor 2 (IPP-2) is a phosphoprotein conserved among all eukaryotes, and it appears in both the nucleus and cytoplasm of tissue culture cells.
PGM_PMM_IV	Phosphoglucomutase/phosphomannomutase, C-terminal domain. 
Hus1	Hus1-like protein. Hus1, Rad1, and Rad9 are three evolutionarily conserved proteins required for checkpoint control in fission yeast. These proteins are known to form a stable complex in vivo. Hus1-Rad1-Rad9 complex may form a PCNA-like ring structure, and could function as a sliding clamp during checkpoint control.
RCC_reductase	Red chlorophyll catabolite reductase (RCC reductase). This family consists of several red chlorophyll catabolite reductase (RCC reductase) proteins. Red chlorophyll catabolite (RCC) reductase (RCCR) and pheophorbide (Pheide) a oxygenase (PaO) catalyse the key reaction of chlorophyll catabolism, porphyrin macrocycle cleavage of Pheide a to a primary fluorescent catabolite (pFCC).
VEFS-Box	VEFS-Box of polycomb protein. The VEFS-Box (VRN2-EMF2-FIS2-Su(z)12) box is the C-terminal region of these proteins, characterised by an acidic cluster and a tryptophan/methionine-rich sequence, the acidic-W/M domain. Some of these sequences are associated with a zinc-finger domain about 100 residues towards the N-terminus. This protein is one of the polycomb cluster of proteins which control HOX gene transcription as it functions in heterochromatin-mediated repression.
CTF_NFI	CTF/NF-I family transcription modulation region. 
RhaA	L-rhamnose isomerase (RhaA). This family consists of several bacterial L-rhamnose isomerase proteins (EC:5.3.1.14).
UCH	Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase. 
RdgC	Putative exonuclease, RdgC. Members of the RdgC family may have exonuclease activity. RdgC is required for efficient pilin variation in Neisseria gonorrhoeae, suggesting that it may be involved in recombination reactions. In Escherichia coli, RdgC is required for growth in recombination-deficient exonuclease-depleted strains. Under these conditions, RdgC may act as an exonuclease to remove collapsed replication forks, in the absence of the normal repair mechanisms.
Big_2	Bacterial Ig-like domain (group 2). This family consists of bacterial domains with an Ig-like fold. Members of this family are found in bacterial and phage surface proteins such as intimins.
Ferrochelatase	Ferrochelatase. 
Pkinase	Protein kinase domain. 
HAP3	Putative flagellar hook-associated protein 3 (HAP3). This family consists of several putative bacterial flagellar hook associated protein 3 (HAP3 or FlgL) sequences. Members of this family appear to be specific to the Order Rhizobiales. No experimental evidence could be found to support the function assigned to family members.
RecQ5	RecQ helicase protein-like 5 (RecQ5). This family represents a conserved region approximately 200 residues long within eukaryotic RecQ helicase protein-like 5 (RecQ5). The RecQ helicases have been implicated in DNA repair and recombination, and RecQ5 may have an important role in DNA metabolism.
Peptidase_C12	Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase, family 1. 
DUF935	Protein of unknown function (DUF935). This family consists of several bacterial proteins of unknown function as well as the Bacteriophage Mu gp29 protein.
GSPII_E_N	GSPII_E N-terminal domain. This domain is found at the N-terminus of members of the general secretory system II protein E. Proteins in this subfamily are typically involved in Type IV pilus biogenesis, though some are involved in other processes; for instance aggregation in Myxococcus xanthus. The structure of this domain is now known.
DUF1234	Alpha/Beta hydrolase family of unknown function (DUF1234). The Crystal Structure Of the Yden Gene Product from B. Subtilis has been solved. The structure shows an alpha-beta hydrolase fold suggesting an enzymatic function for these proteins.
DUF1423	Protein of unknown function (DUF1423). This family represents a conserved region approximately 500 residues long within a number of Arabidopsis thaliana proteins of unknown function.
DUF1950	Domain of unknown function(DUF1950). Members of this family pertain to a set of functionally uncharacterised hypothetical eukaryotic proteins.
SNF2_N	SNF2 family N-terminal domain. This domain is found in proteins involved in a variety of processes including transcription regulation (e.g., SNF2, STH1, brahma, MOT1), DNA repair (e.g., ERCC6, RAD16, RAD5), DNA recombination (e.g., RAD54), and chromatin unwinding (e.g., ISWI) as well as a variety of other proteins with little functional information (e.g., lodestar, ETL1).
Per1	Per1-like. PER1 is required for GPI-phospholipase A2 activity and is involved in lipid remodelling of GPI-anchored proteins.
Peptidase_A22B	Signal peptide peptidase. The members of this family are membrane proteins. In some proteins this region is found associated with pfam02225. This family corresponds with Merops subfamily A22B, the type example of which is signal peptide peptidase. There is a sequence-similarity relationship with pfam01080.
Flagellar_rod	Paraflagellar rod protein. This family consists of several eukaryotic paraflagellar rod component proteins. The eukaryotic flagellum represents one of the most complex macromolecular structures found in any organism and contains more than 250 proteins. In addition to its locomotive role, the flagellum is probably involved in nutrient uptake since receptors for host low-density lipoproteins are localised on the flagellar membrane as well as on the flagellar pocket membrane.
Syndecan	Syndecan domain. Syndecans are transmembrane heparin sulfate proteoglycans which are implicated in the binding of extracellular matrix components and growth factors.
A_deamin	Adenosine-deaminase (editase) domain. Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs) can deaminate adenosine to form inosine. In long double-stranded RNA, this process is non-specific; it occurs site-specifically in RNA transcripts. The former is important in defence against viruses, whereas the latter may affect splicing or untranslated regions. They are primarily nuclear proteins, but a longer isoform of ADAR1 is found predominantly in the cytoplasm. The region described in this family includes the catalytic domain, which has three active site sequence motifs characteristic of ADARs, each containing a cysteine or histidine that binds zinc.
Methyltransf_4	Putative methyltransferase. This is a family of putative methyltransferases. The aligned region contains the GXGXG S-AdoMet binding site suggesting a putative methyltransferase activity.
Ribonuc_L-PSP	Endoribonuclease L-PSP. Endoribonuclease active on single-stranded mRNA. Inhibits protein synthesis by cleavage of mRNA. Previously thought to inhibit protein synthesis initiation. This protein may also be involved in the regulation of purine biosynthesis.
FdhE	Protein involved in formate dehydrogenase formation. The function of these proteins is unknown. They may possibly be involved in the formation of formate dehydrogenase.
NAD_binding_4	Male sterility protein. This family represents the C-terminal region of the male sterility protein in a number of arabidopsis and drosophila. A sequence-related jojoba acyl CoA reductase is also included.
Ferritin	Ferritin-like domain. This family contains ferritins and other ferritin-like proteins such as members of the DPS family and bacterioferritins.
MCD	Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase (MCD). This family consists of several eukaryotic malonyl-CoA decarboxylase (MLYCD) proteins. Malonyl-CoA, in addition to being an intermediate in the de novo synthesis of fatty acids, is an inhibitor of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the enzyme that regulates the transfer of long-chain fatty acyl-CoA into mitochondria, where they are oxidised. After exercise, malonyl-CoA decarboxylase participates with acetyl-CoA carboxylase in regulating the concentration of malonyl-CoA in liver and adipose tissue, as well as in muscle. Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase is regulated by AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK).
Ycf4	Ycf4. This family consists of hypothetical Ycf4 proteins from various chloroplast genomes. It has been suggested that Ycf4 is involved in the assembly and/or stability of the photosystem I complex in chloroplasts.
Gar1	Gar1 protein RNA binding region. Gar1 is a small nucleolar RNP that is required for pre-mRNA processing and pseudouridylation. It is co-immunoprecipitated with the H/ACA families of snoRNAs. This family represents the conserved central region of Gar1. This region is necessary and sufficient for normal cell growth, and specifically binds two snoRNAs snR10 and snR30. This region is also necessary for nucleolar targeting, and it is thought that the protein is co-transported to the nucleolus as part of a nucleoprotein complex. In humans, Gar1 is also component of telomerase in vivo.
RnaseH	RNase H. RNase H digests the RNA strand of an RNA/DNA hybrid. Important enzyme in retroviral replication cycle, and often found as a domain associated with reverse transcriptases. Structure is a mixed alpha+beta fold with three a/b/a layers.
NAP	Nucleosome assembly protein (NAP). NAP proteins are involved in moving histones into the nucleus, nucleosome assembly and chromatin fluidity. They affect the transcription of many genes.
Hpre_diP_synt_I	Heptaprenyl diphosphate synthase component I. This family contains component I of bacterial heptaprenyl diphosphate synthase (EC:2.5.1.30) (approximately 170 residues long). This is one of the two dissociable subunits that form the enzyme, both of which are required for the catalysis of the biosynthesis of the side chain of menaquinone-7.
SURF5	Surfeit locus protein 5. This family consists of several eukaryotic Surfeit locus protein 5 (SURF5) sequences. The human Surfeit locus has been mapped on chromosome 9q34.1. The locus includes six tightly clustered housekeeping genes (Surf1-6), and the gene organisation is similar in human, mouse and chicken Surfeit locus. The exact function of this family is unknown.
ADK	Adenylate kinase. 
Baculo_PEP_C	Baculovirus polyhedron envelope protein, PEP, C terminus. Polyhedra are large crystalline occlusion bodies containing nucleopolyhedrovirus virions, and surrounded by an electron-dense structure called the polyhedron envelope or polyhedron calyx. The polyhedron envelope (associated) protein PEP is thought to be an integral part of the polyhedron envelope. PEP is concentrated at the surface of polyhedra, and is thought to be important for the proper formation of the periphery of polyhedra. It is thought that PEP may stabilise polyhedra and protect them from fusion or aggregation.
Harpin	Harpin protein (HrpN). This family consists of several bacterial HrpN harpin proteins. HrpN is a virulence determinant which elicits lesion formation in Arabidopsis and tobacco and triggers systemic resistance in Arabidopsis.
Arena_nucleocap	Arenavirus nucleocapsid protein. 
MotA_ExbB	MotA/TolQ/ExbB proton channel family. This family groups together integral membrane proteins that appear to be involved translocation of proteins across a membrane. These proteins are probably proton channels. MotA is an essential component of the flageller motor that uses a proton gradient to generate rotational motion in the flageller. ExbB is part of the TonB-dependent transduction complex. The TonB complex uses the proton gradient across the inner bacterial membrane to transport large molecules across the outer bacterial membrane.
Fmp27_GFWDK	RNA pol II promoter Fmp27 protein domain. Fmp27_GFWDK is a conserved domain of a family of proteins involved in RNA polymerase II transcription initiation. It contains characteristic GFWDK sequence motifs. Some members are associated with domain Fmp27_SW (pfam10305) towards the N terminus.
Ribosomal_L9_N	Ribosomal protein L9, N-terminal domain. 
P_C	P protein C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminus of plant P proteins. The maize P gene is a transcriptional regulator of genes encoding enzymes for flavonoid biosynthesis in the pathway leading to the production of a red phlobaphene pigment, and P proteins are homologous to the DNA-binding domain of myb-like transcription factors. All members of this family contain the pfam00249 domain.
MAN1_C	MAN1 C terminal. MAN1 is an integral protein of the inner nuclear membrane which binds to chromatin associated proteins and plays a role in nuclear organisation. The C terminal nulceoplasmic region forms a DNA binding winged helix and binds to Smad.
Neuregulin	Neuregulin family. 
DUF410	Protein of unknown function (DUF410). Family of conserved eukaryotic proteins with undetermined function.
Methyltransf_2	O-methyltransferase. This family includes a range of O-methyltransferases. These enzymes utilise S-adenosyl methionine.
PAP2	PAP2 superfamily. This family includes the enzyme type 2 phosphatidic acid phosphatase (PAP2), Glucose-6-phosphatase EC:3.1.3.9, Phosphatidylglycerophosphatase B EC:3.1.3.27 and bacterial acid phosphatase EC:3.1.3.2. The family also includes a variety of haloperoxidases that function by oxidising halides in the presence of hydrogen peroxide to form the corresponding hypohalous acids.
HAP1_N	HAP1 N-terminal conserved region. This family represents an N-terminal conserved region found in several huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1) homologues. HAP1 binds to huntingtin in a polyglutamine repeat-length-dependent manner. However, its possible role in the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease is unclear. This family also includes a similar N-terminal conserved region from hypothetical protein products of ALS2CR3 genes found in the human juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis critical region 2q33-2q34.
RNA_pol_Rpb1_1	RNA polymerase Rpb1, domain 1. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain, domain 1, represents the clamp domain, which a mobile domain involved in positioning the DNA, maintenance of the transcription bubble and positioning of the nascent RNA strand.
Dala_Dala_lig_N	D-ala D-ala ligase N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminal region of the D-alanine-D-alanine ligase enzyme EC:6.3.2.4 which is thought to be involved in substrate binding. D-Alanine is one of the central molecules of the cross-linking step of peptidoglycan assembly. There are three enzymes involved in the D-alanine branch of peptidoglycan biosynthesis: the pyridoxal phosphate-dependent D-alanine racemase (Alr), the ATP-dependent D-alanine:D-alanine ligase (Ddl), and the ATP-dependent D-alanine:D-alanine-adding enzyme (MurF).
CKS	Cyclin-dependent kinase regulatory subunit. 
TUDOR	Tudor domain. Domain of unknown function present in several RNA-binding proteins. copies in the Drosophila Tudor protein.
DUF679	Protein of unknown function (DUF679). This family contains several uncharacterised plant proteins.
DUF1296	Protein of unknown function (DUF1296). This family represents a conserved region approximately 60 residues long within a number of plant proteins of unknown function.
RRN3	RNA polymerase I specific transcription initiation factor RRN3. This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins which are homologous to the yeast RRN3 protein. RRN3 is one of the RRN genes specifically required for the transcription of rDNA by RNA polymerase I (Pol I) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Multi_Drug_Res	Small Multidrug Resistance protein. This family is the Small Multidrug Resistance (SMR) family. Several members have been shown to export a range of toxins, including ethidium bromide (and quaternary ammonium compounds, through coupling with proton influx.
MRG	MRG. This family consists of three different eukaryotic proteins (mortality factor 4 (MORF4/MRG15), male-specific lethal 3(MSL-3) and ESA1-associated factor 3(EAF3)). It is thought that the MRG family is involved in transcriptional regulation via histone acetylation. It contains 2 chromo domains and a leucine zipper motif.
Mago-bind	Mago binding. Members of this family adopt a structure consisting of a small globular all-beta-domain, with a three-stranded beta-sheet and a contiguous beta-hairpin. They bind to Mago alpha-helices via extensive electrostatic interactions and at a beta2-beta3 loop via hydrophobic interactions.
Ctf8	Ctf8. Ctf8 (chromosome transmissions fidelity 8) is a component of the Ctf18 RFC-like complex which is a DNA clamp loader involved in sister chromatid cohesion.
ELM2	ELM2 domain. The ELM2 (Egl-27 and MTA1 homology 2) domain is a small domain of unknown function. It is found in the MTA1 protein that is part of the NuRD complex. The domain is usually found to the N terminus of a myb-like DNA binding domain pfam00249. ELM2 is also found associated with an ARID DNA binding domain pfam01388 in a protein from Arabidopsis thaliana. This suggests that ELM2 may also be involved in DNA binding, or perhaps is a protein-protein interaction domain.
DUF1997	Protein of unknown function (DUF1997). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised.
LEA_5	Small hydrophilic plant seed protein. 
DUF383	Domain of unknown function (DUF383). 
BAR_2	Bin/amphiphysin/Rvs domain for vesicular trafficking. This Pfam entry includes proteins that are not matched by pfam03114.
3HCDH	3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, C-terminal domain. This family also includes lambda crystallin. Some proteins include two copies of this domain.
ABC_tran	ABC transporter. ABC transporters for a large family of proteins responsible for translocation of a variety of compounds across biological membranes. ABC transporters are the largest family of proteins in many completely sequenced bacteria. ABC transporters are composed of two copies of this domain and two copies of a transmembrane domain pfam00664. These four domains may belong to a single polypeptide or belong in different polypeptide chains.
UVR	UvrB/uvrC motif. 
Trp_dioxygenase	Tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase. 
TP2	Nuclear transition protein 2. 
Pec_lyase_N	Pectate lyase, N terminus. This region is found N terminal to the pectate lyase domain (pfam00544) in some plant pectate lyase enzymes.
Psf2	Partner of SLD five, PSF2. A eukaryotic specific domain of undetermined function.` The GINS complex is essential for initiation of DNA replication in Xenopus egg extracts. This 100 kD stable complex includes Sld5, Psf1, Psf2, and Psf3. Homologues of these components are found also in yeasts and in humans.
PAS_4	PAS fold. The PAS fold corresponds to the structural domain that has previously been defined as PAS and PAC motifs. The PAS fold appears in archaea, eubacteria and eukarya.
CARD	Caspase recruitment domain. Motif contained in proteins involved in apoptotic signaling. Predicted to possess a DEATH (pfam00531) domain-like fold.
S-AdoMet_synt_C	S-adenosylmethionine synthetase, C-terminal domain. The three domains of S-adenosylmethionine synthetase have the same alpha+beta fold.
Pet127	Mitochondrial protein Pet127. Pet127 has been implicated in mitochondrial RNA stability and/or processing and is localised to the mitochondrial membrane.
ATP-synt_F	ATP synthase (F/14-kDa) subunit. This family includes 14-kDa subunit from vATPases, which is in the peripheral catalytic part of the complex. The family also includes archaebacterial ATP synthase subunit F.
GATase	Glutamine amidotransferase class-I. 
Rubis-subs-bind	Rubisco LSMT substrate-binding. Members of this family adopt a multihelical structure, with an irregular array of long and short alpha-helices. They allow binding of the protein to substrate, such as the N-terminal tails of histones H3 and H4 and the large subunit of the Rubisco holoenzyme complex.
NIT	Nitrate and nitrite sensing. The nitrate- and nitrite sensing domain (NIT) is found in receptor components of signal transducing pathways in bacteria which control gene expression, cellular motility and enzyme activity in response to nitrate and nitrite concentrations. The NIT domain is predicted to be all alpha-helical in structure.
Metallothio_2	Metallothionein. Members of this family are metallothioneins. These proteins are cysteine rich proteins that bind to heavy metals. Members of this family appear to be closest to Class II metallothioneins, seed pfam00131.
Peptidase_M17_N	Cytosol aminopeptidase family, N-terminal domain. 
Ribonuclease_3	RNase3 domain. 
DSHCT	DSHCT (NUC185) domain. This C terminal domain is found in DOB1/SK12/helY-like DEAD box helicases.
DUF1966	Domain of unknown function (DUF1966). This domain is found in various fungal alpha-amylase proteins. Its exact function has not, as yet, been defined.
DREV	DREV methyltransferase. This family contains DREV protein homologues from several eukaryotes. The function of this protein is unknown. However, these proteins appear to be related to other methyltransferases (Bateman A pers obs).
FliP	FliP family. 
F_actin_bind	F-actin binding. The F-actin binding domain forms a compact bundle of four antiparallel alpha-helices, which are arranged in a left-handed topology. Binding of F-actin to the F-actin binding domain may result in cytoplasmic retention and subcellular distribution of the protein, as well as possible inhibition of protein function.
RRM_3	RNA binding motif. This domain is found in protein La which functions as an RNA chaperone during RNA polymerase III transcription, and can also stimulate translation initiation. It contains a five stranded beta sheet which forms an atypical RNA recognition motif.
HTH_8	Bacterial regulatory protein, Fis family. 
Cytochrom_B559	Cytochrome b559, alpha (gene psbE) and beta (gene psbF)subunits. 
TPP_enzyme_N	Thiamine pyrophosphate enzyme, N-terminal TPP binding domain. 
Transposase_8	Transposase. Transposase proteins are necessary for efficient DNA transposition. This family consists of various Escherichia coli insertion elements and other bacterial transposases some of which are members of the IS3 family.
Glyco_transf_64	Glycosyl transferase family 64 domain. Members of this family catalyse the transfer reaction of N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylgalactosamine from the respective UDP-sugars to the non-reducing end of [glucuronic acid]beta 1-3[galactose]beta 1-O-naphthalenemethanol, an acceptor substrate analog of the natural common linker of various glycosylaminoglycans. They are also required for the biosynthesis of heparan-sulphate.
TRP	Transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channel. This family of proteins are transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels. They are essential for cellular viability and are involved in cell growth and cell wall synthesis. The genes for these proteins are homologous to polycystic kidney disease related ion channel genes.
DUF821	Arabidopsis thaliana protein of unknown function (DUF821). This family consists of a group of Arabidopsis thaliana proteins with no known function.
Plug	TonB-dependent Receptor Plug Domain. The Plug domain has been shown to be an independently folding subunit of the TonB-dependent receptors. It acts as the channel gate, blocking the pore until the channel is bound by ligand. At this point it under goes conformational changes opens the channel.
MoaC	MoaC family. Members of this family are involved in molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis. However their molecular function is not known.
FG-GAP	FG-GAP repeat. This family contains the extracellular repeat that is found in up to seven copies in alpha integrins. This repeat has been predicted to fold into a beta propeller structure. The repeat is called the FG-GAP repeat after two conserved motifs in the repeat. The FG-GAP repeats are found in the N terminus of integrin alpha chains, a region that has been shown to be important for ligand binding. A putative Ca2+ binding motif is found in some of the repeats.
AAA_PrkA	PrkA AAA domain. This is a family of PrkA bacterial and archaeal serine kinases approximately 630 residues long. This is the N-terminal AAA domain.
Prefoldin	Prefoldin subunit. This family comprises of several prefoldin subunits. The biogenesis of the cytoskeletal proteins actin and tubulin involves interaction of nascent chains of each of the two proteins with the oligomeric protein prefoldin (PFD) and their subsequent transfer to the cytosolic chaperonin CCT (chaperonin containing TCP-1). Electron microscopy shows that eukaryotic PFD, which has a similar structure to its archaeal counterpart, interacts with unfolded actin along the tips of its projecting arms. In its PFD-bound state, actin seems to acquire a conformation similar to that adopted when it is bound to CCT.
Asp	Eukaryotic aspartyl protease. Aspartyl (acid) proteases include pepsins, cathepsins, and renins. Two-domain structure, probably arising from ancestral duplication. This family does not include the retroviral nor retrotransposon proteases (pfam00077), which are much smaller and appear to be homologous to a single domain of the eukaryotic asp proteases.
DUF634	Protein of unknown function (DUF634). Mammalian protein of unknown function.
DUF1096	Protein of unknown function (DUF1096). This family represents the N-terminal region of several proteins found in Caenorhabditis elegans. The family is often found with pfam02363.
AAA_2	ATPase family associated with various cellular activities (AAA). This Pfam entry includes some of the AAA proteins not detected by the pfam00004 model.
SBF	Sodium Bile acid symporter family. This family consists of Na+/bile acid co-transporters. These transmembrane proteins function in the liver in the uptake of bile acids from portal blood plasma a process mediated by the co-transport of Na+. Also in the family is ARC3 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae; this is a putative transmembrane protein involved in resistance to arsenic compounds.
TatD_DNase	TatD related DNase. This family of proteins are related to a large superfamily of metalloenzymes. TatD, a member of this family has been shown experimentally to be a DNase enzyme.
Caveolin	Caveolin. All three known Caveolin forms have the FEDVIAEP caveolin 'signature motif' within their hydrophilic N-terminal domain. Caveolin 2 (Cav-2) is co-localised and co-expressed with Cav-1/VIP21, forms heterodimers with it and needs Cav-1 for proper membrane localisation. Cav-3 has greater protein sequence similarity to Cav-1 than to Cav-2. Cellular processes caveolins are involved in include vesicular transport, cholesterol homeostasis, signal transduction, and tumour suppression.
Mucin	Mucin-like glycoprotein. This family of trypanosomal proteins resemble vertebrate mucins. The protein consists of three regions. The N and C terminii are conserved between all members of the family, whereas the central region is not well conserved and contains a large number of threonine residues which can be glycosylated. Indirect evidence suggested that these genes might encode the core protein of parasite mucins, glycoproteins that were proposed to be involved in the interaction with, and invasion of, mammalian host cells.
Glyco_hydro_10	Glycosyl hydrolase family 10. 
DDE	DDE superfamily endonuclease. This family of proteins are related to pfam00665 and are probably endonucleases of the DDE superfamily. Transposase proteins are necessary for efficient DNA transposition. This domain is a member of the DDE superfamily, which contain three carboxylate residues that are believed to be responsible for coordinating metal ions needed for catalysis. The catalytic activity of this enzyme involves DNA cleavage at a specific site followed by a strand transfer reaction. Interestingly this family also includes the CENP-B protein. This domain in that protein appears to have lost the metal binding residues and is unlikely to have endonuclease activity. Centromere Protein B (CENP-B) is a DNA-binding protein localised to the centromere.
DUF1539	Domain of Unknown Function (DUF1539). 
SprT-like	Uncharacterized conserved protein (SprT-like). This family represents approximately 160 residues of a group of proteins conserved from fungi to humans. Some members are annotated as SprT-like metallo-proteases but this could not be confirmed. The function is not known.
TIR	TIR domain. The Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) homology domain is an intracellular signalling domain found in MyD88, interleukin 1 receptor and the Toll receptor. It contains three highly-conserved regions, and mediates protein-protein interactions between the Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and signal-transduction components. TIR-like motifs are also found in plant proteins thought to be involved in resistance to disease. When activated, TIR domains recruit cytoplasmic adaptor proteins MyD88 and TOLLIP (Toll interacting protein). In turn, these associate with various kinases to set off signalling cascades.
DUF288	Protein of unknown function, DUF288. 
CbiM	Cobalt uptake substrate-specific transmembrane region. This family of proteins forms part of the cobalt-transport complex in prokaryotes, CbiMNQO. CbiMNQO and NikMNQO are the most widespread groups of microbial transporters for cobalt and nickel ions and are unusual uptake systems as they consist of eg two transmembrane components (CbiM and CbiQ), a small membrane-bound component (CbiN) and an ATP-binding protein (CbiO) but no extracytoplasmic solute-binding protein. Similar components constitute the nickel transporters with some variability in the small membrane-bound component, either NikN or NikL, which are not similar to CbiN at the sequence level. CbiM is the substrate-specific component of the complex and is a seven-transmembrane protein. The CbiMNQO and NikMNQO systems form part of the coenzyme B12 biosynthesis pathway. The NikM protein is pfam10670.
Herpes_UL3	Herpesvirus UL3 protein. 
MSP1_C	Merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1) C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminal region of merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1) which are found in a number of Plasmodium species. MSP-1 is a 200-kDa protein expressed on the surface of the P. vivax merozoite. MSP-1 of Plasmodium species is synthesised as a high-molecular-weight precursor and then processed into several fragments. At the time of red cell invasion by the merozoite, only the 19-kDa C-terminal fragment (MSP-119), which contains two epidermal growth factor-like domains, remains on the surface. Antibodies against MSP-119 inhibit merozoite entry into red cells, and immunisation with MSP-119 protects monkeys from challenging infections. Hence, MSP-119 is considered a promising vaccine candidate.
Protamine_P2	Sperm histone P2. This protein also known as protamine P2 can substitute for histones in the chromatin of sperm (Swiss-Prot). The alignment contains both the sequence of the mature P2 protein and its propeptide.
Rad54_N	Rad54 N terminal. This is the N terminal of the DNA repair protein Rad54.
Bunya_G1	Bunyavirus glycoprotein G1. Bunyavirus has three genomic segments: small (S), middle-sized (M), and large (L). The S segment encodes the nucleocapsid and a non-structural protein. The M segment codes for two glycoproteins, G1 and G2, and another non-structural protein (NSm). The L segment codes for an RNA polymerase. This family contains the G1 glycoprotein which is the viral attachment protein.
DUF1664	Protein of unknown function (DUF1664). The members of this family are hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function. The region featured in this family is approximately 100 amino acids long.
P2_Phage_GpR	P2 phage tail completion protein R (GpR). This family consists of P2 phage tail completion protein R (GpR) like sequences. GpR is thought to be a tail completion protein which is essential for stable head joining.
DUF140	Domain of unknown function DUF140. This domain has no known function nor do any of the proteins that possess it. The aligned region is approximately 150 amino acids long.
FeThRed_B	Ferredoxin thioredoxin reductase catalytic beta chain. 
TMP-TENI	Thiamine monophosphate synthase/TENI. Thiamine monophosphate synthase (TMP) (EC:2.5.1.3) catalyses the substitution of the pyrophosphate of 2-methyl-4-amino-5- hydroxymethylpyrimidine pyrophosphate by 4-methyl-5- (beta-hydroxyethyl)thiazole phosphate to yield thiamine phosphate. This Pfam family also includes the regulatory protein TENI.
Mre11_DNA_bind	Mre11 DNA-binding presumed domain. The Mre11 complex is a multi-subunit nuclease that is composed of Mre11, Rad50 and Nbs1/Xrs2, and is involved in checkpoint signalling and DNA replication. Mre11 has an intrinsic DNA-binding activity that is stimulated by Rad50 on its own or in combination with Nbs1.
CobA_CobO_BtuR	ATP:corrinoid adenosyltransferase BtuR/CobO/CobP. This family consists of the BtuR, CobO, CobP proteins all of which are Cob(I)alamin adenosyltransferase, EC:2.5.1.17, involved in cobalamin (vitamin B12) biosynthesis. These enzymes catalyse the adenosylation reaction: ATP + cob(I)alamin + H2O <=> phosphate + diphosphate + adenosylcobalamin.
NAPRTase	Nicotinate phosphoribosyltransferase (NAPRTase) family. Nicotinate phosphoribosyltransferase (EC:2.4.2.11) is the rate limiting enzyme that catalyses the first reaction in the NAD salvage synthesis. This family also includes Pre-B cell enhancing factor that is a cytokine. This family is related to Quinolinate phosphoribosyltransferase pfam01729.
PTH2	Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase PTH2. Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolases are enzymes that release tRNAs from peptidyl-tRNA during translation.
Ribosomal_L11_N	Ribosomal protein L11, N-terminal domain. The N-terminal domain of Ribosomal protein L11 adopts an alpha/beta fold and is followed by the RNA binding C-terminal domain.
Herpes_LMP1	Herpesvirus latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1). This family consists of several latent membrane protein 1 or LMP1s mostly from Epstein-Barr virus. LMP1 of EBV is a 62-65 kDa plasma membrane protein possessing six membrane spanning regions, a short cytoplasmic N-terminus and a long cytoplasmic carboxy tail of 200 amino acids. EBV latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is essential for EBV-mediated transformation and has been associated with several cases of malignancies. EBV-like viruses in Cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) have been associated with high lymphoma rates in immunosuppressed monkeys
DUF313	Domain of unknown function (DUF313). Family of proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana with uncharacterised function.
HpaB	4-hydroxyphenylacetate 3-hydroxylase family. HpaB encodes part of the 4-hydroxyphenylacetate 3-hydroxylase from Escherichia coli. HpaB is part of a heterodimeric enzyme that also requires HpaC. The enzyme is NADH-dependent and uses FAD as the redox chromophore. This family also includes PvcC, which may play a role in one of the proposed hydroxylation steps of pyoverdine chromophore biosynthesis.
DUF2261	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2261). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
PALP	Pyridoxal-phosphate dependent enzyme. Members of this family are all pyridoxal-phosphate dependent enzymes. This family includes: serine dehydratase EC:4.2.1.13 P20132, threonine dehydratase EC:4.2.1.16, tryptophan synthase beta chain EC:4.2.1.20, threonine synthase EC:4.2.99.2, cysteine synthase EC:4.2.99.8 P11096, cystathionine beta-synthase EC:4.2.1.22, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase EC:4.1.99.4.
DUF1117	Protein of unknown function (DUF1117). This family represents the C-terminus of a number of hypothetical plant proteins.
S1-P1_nuclease	S1/P1 Nuclease. This family contains both S1 and P1 nucleases (EC:3.1.30.1) which cleave RNA and single stranded DNA with no base specificity.
TFIIB_Zn_Ribbon	TFIIB zinc-binding. The transcription factor TFIIB contains a zinc-binding motif near the N-terminus. This domain is involved in the interaction with RNA pol II and TFIIF and plays a crucial role in selecting the transcription initiation site. The domain adopts a zinc ribbon like structure.
GGDEF	GGDEF domain. This domain is found linked to a wide range of non-homologous domains in a variety of bacteria. It has been shown to be homologous to the adenylyl cyclase catalytic domain and has diguanylate cyclase activity. This observation correlates with the functional information available on two GGDEF-containing proteins, namely diguanylate cyclase and phosphodiesterase A of Acetobacter xylinum, both of which regulate the turnover of cyclic diguanosine monophosphate.
Ndr	Ndr family. This family consists of proteins from different gene families: Ndr1/RTP/Drg1, Ndr2, and Ndr3. Their similarity was previously noted. The precise molecular and cellular function of members of this family is still unknown. Yet, they are known to be involved in cellular differentiation events. The Ndr1 group was the first to be discovered. Their expression is repressed by the proto-oncogenes N-myc and c-myc, and in line with this observation, Ndr1 protein expression is down-regulated in neoplastic cells, and is reactivated when differentiation is induced by chemicals such as retinoic acid. Ndr2 and Ndr3 expression is not under the control of N-myc or c-myc. Ndr1 expression is also activated by several chemicals: tunicamycin and homocysteine induce Ndr1 in human umbilical endothelial cells; nickel induces Ndr1 in several cell types. Members of this family are found in wide variety of multicellular eukaryotes, including an Ndr1 type protein in Helianthus annuus (sunflower), known as Sf21. Interestingly, the highest scoring matches in the noise are all alpha/beta hydrolases pfam00561, suggesting that this family may have an enzymatic function (Bateman A pers. obs.).
DUF95	Integral membrane protein DUF95. Members of this family have several predicted transmembrane regions. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF125	Integral membrane protein DUF125. This family of predicted integral membrane proteins has no known function. However it does include yeast CCC1, which may have a role in regulating calcium levels.
YtxC	YtxC-like family. This family includes proteins similar to B. subtilis YtxC an uncharacterised protein.
Sigma70_r3	Sigma-70 region 3. Region 3 forms a discrete compact three helical domain within the sigma-factor. Region is not normally involved in the recognition of promoter DNA, but as some specific bacterial promoters containing an extended -10 promoter element, residues within region 3 play an important role. Region 3 primarily is involved in binding the core RNA polymerase in the holoenzyme.
Gag_MA	Matrix protein (MA), p15. The matrix protein, p15, is encoded by the gag gene. MA is involved in pathogenicity.
DUF761	Cotton fibre expressed protein. This family consists of several plant proteins of unknown function. Three of the sequences (from Gossypium hirsutum) in this family are described as cotton fibre expressed proteins. The remaining sequences, found in Arabidopsis thaliana, are uncharacterised.
HAP2-GCS1	Male gamete fusion factor. The gene encoding Arabidopsis HAP2 is allelic with GCS1 (Generative cell-specific protein 1). HAP2 is expressed only in the haploid sperm and is required for efficient guidance of the pollen tube to the ovules. In Arabidopsis the protein is a predicted membrane protein with an N-terminal secretion signal, a single transmembrane domain and a C-terminal histidine-rich domain. HAP2-GCS1 is found from plants to lower eukaryotes and is necessary for the fusion of the gametes in fertilisation. It is involved in a novel mechanism for gamete fusion where a first species-specific protein binds male and female gamete membranes together after which a second, broadly conserved protein, either directly or indirectly, causes fusion of the two membranes together. The broadly conserved protein is represented by this HAP2-GCS1 domain, conserved from plants to lower eukaryotes. In Plasmodium berghei the protein is expressed only in male gametocytes and gametes, having a male-specific function during the interaction with female gametes, and being indispensable for parasite fertilisation. The gene in plants and eukaryotes might well have originated from acquisition of plastids from red algae.
DUF2248	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2248). Members of this family of hypothetical bacterial proteins have no known function.
Tannase	Tannase and feruloyl esterase. This family includes fungal tannase and feruloyl esterase. It also includes several bacterial homologues of unknown function.
BioY	BioY family. A number of bacterial genes are involved in bioconversion of pimelate into dethiobiotin. BioY is a component of the BioMNY transport system involved in biotin uptake in prokaryotes.
Tubulin	Tubulin/FtsZ family, GTPase domain. This family includes the tubulin alpha, beta and gamma chains, as well as the bacterial FtsZ family of proteins. Members of this family are involved in polymer formation. FtsZ is the polymer-forming protein of bacterial cell division. It is part of a ring in the middle of the dividing cell that is required for constriction of cell membrane and cell envelope to yield two daughter cells. FtsZ and tubulin are GTPases. FtsZ can polymerise into tubes, sheets, and rings in vitro and is ubiquitous in eubacteria and archaea. Tubulin is the major component of microtubules.
TFIID_90kDa	WD40 associated region in TFIID subunit. This region, possibly a domain is found in subunits of transcription factor TFIID. The function of this region is unknown.
Autophagy_act_C	Autophagocytosis associated protein, active-site domain. Autophagocytosis is a starvation-induced process responsible for transport of cytoplasmic proteins to the vacuole. The cysteine residue within the HPC motif is the putative active-site residue for recognition of the Apg5 subunit of the autophagosome complex.
SecY	eubacterial secY protein. 
Cytochrom_C_asm	Cytochrome C assembly protein. This family consists of various proteins involved in cytochrome c assembly from mitochondria and bacteria; CycK from Rhizobium, CcmC from Escherichia coli and Paracoccus denitrificans and orf240 from wheat mitochondria. The members of this family are probably integral membrane proteins with six predicted transmembrane helices. It has been proposed that members of this family comprise a membrane component of an ABC (ATP binding cassette) transporter complex. It is also proposed that this transporter is necessary for transport of some component needed for cytochrome c assembly. One member CycK contains a putative heme-binding motif, orf240 also contains a putative heme-binding motif and is a proposed ABC transporter with c-type heme as its proposed substrate. However it seems unlikely that all members of this family transport heme nor c-type apocytochromes because CcmC in the putative CcmABC transporter transports neither.
Tmemb_40	Predicted membrane protein. This is a region of 280 amino acids from a group of proteins conserved from plants to humans. It is predicted to be a membrane protein but its function is otherwise unknown.
DUF1956	Domain of unknown function (DUF1956). Members of this family are found in various prokaryotic transcriptional regulator proteins. Their exact function has not, as yet, been identified.
NDUF_B8	NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase ASHI subunit (CI-ASHI or NDUFB8). This family consists of several eukaryotic NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase ASHI subunit (CI-ASHI) proteins. NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) is an extremely complicated multiprotein complex located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Its main function is the transport of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone, which is accompanied by translocation of protons from the mitochondrial matrix to the intermembrane space. Human complex I appears to consist of 41 subunits.
DMAP1	DNA methyltransferase 1-associated protein 1 (DMAP1). DNA methylation can contribute to transcriptional silencing through several transcriptionally repressive complexes, which include methyl-CpG binding domain proteins (MBDs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs). The chief enzyme that maintains mammalian DNA methylation, DNMT1, can also establish a repressive transcription complex. The non-catalytic amino terminus of DNMT1 binds to HDAC2 and DMAP1 (for DNMT1 associated protein), and can mediate transcriptional repression. DMAP1 has intrinsic transcription repressive activity, and binds to the transcriptional co-repressor TSG101. DMAP1 is targeted to replication foci through interaction with the far N terminus of DNMT1 throughout S phase, whereas HDAC2 joins DNMT1 and DMAP1 only during late S phase, providing a platform for how histones may become deacetylated in heterochromatin following replication.
Urocanase	Urocanase. 
Rad17	Rad17 cell cycle checkpoint protein. 
Cript	Microtubule-associated protein CRIPT. The CRIPT protein is a cytoskeletal protein involved in microtubule production. The C-terminal domain is essential for binding to the PDZ3 domain of the SAP90 protein, one of a super-family of PDZ-containing proteins that play an important role in coupling the membrane ion channels with their signalling partners. SAP90 is concentrated in the post synaptic density of glutamatergic neurons.
ATE_C	Arginine-tRNA-protein transferase, C terminus. This family represents the C terminal region of the enzyme arginine-tRNA-protein transferase (EC 2.3.2.8), which catalyses the post-translational conjugation of arginine to the N terminus of a protein. In eukaryotes, this functions as part of the N-end rule pathway of protein degradation by conjugating a destabilising amino acid to the amino terminal aspartate or glutamate of a protein, targeting the protein for ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. N terminal cysteine is sometimes modified.
DUF2477	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0574). This is a family of proteins with no known function. The family is rich in proline residues.
YL1	YL1 nuclear protein. The proteins in this family are designated YL1. These proteins have been shown to be DNA-binding and may be a transcription factor.
PLATZ	PLATZ transcription factor. Plant AT-rich sequence and zinc-binding proteins (PLATZ) are zinc dependant DNA binding proteins. They bind to AT rich sequences and functions in transcriptional repression.
SSF	Sodium:solute symporter family. 
Serinc	Serine incorporator (Serinc). This is a family of eukaryotic membrane proteins which incorporate serine into membranes and facilitate the synthesis of the serine-derived lipids phosphatidylserine and sphingolipid. Members of this family contain 11 transmembrane domains and form intracellular complexes with key enzymes involved in serine and sphingolipid biosynthesis.
Oxysterol_BP	Oxysterol-binding protein. 
DOMON	DOMON domain. The DOMON (named after dopamine beta-monooxygenase N-terminal) domain is 110-125 residues long. It is predicted to form an all beta fold with up to 11 strands and is secreted to the extracellular compartment. The beta-strand folding produces a hydrophobic pocket which appears to bind soluble haem. This is consistent with the predominant architectures where the protein is associated with cytochromes or enzymatic domains whose activity involves redox or electron transfer reactions potentially as a direct participant in the electron transfer process. The DOMON domain superfamily, of which this is just one member, shows (1) multiple hydrophobic residues that contribute to the hydrophobic core of the strands of the beta-sandwich, and small residues found at the boundaries of strands and loops, (2) a strongly conserved charged residue (usually arginine/lysine) at the end of strand 9, which possibly stabilises the loop between 9 and 10, and (3) a polar residue (usually histidine, lysine or arginine), that interacts or coordinates with ligands. The suggested superfamily includes both haem- and sugar-binding members: the haem-binding families being the ethyl-Benzoate dehydrogenase family EB_dh, pfam09459, the cellobiose dehydrogenase family CBDH and this family, and the sugar-binding families being the xylanases, CBM_4_9, pfam02018. The common feature of the superfamily is the 11-beta-strand structure, although the first and eleventh strands are not well conserved either within families or between families.
CRM1_C	CRM1 C terminal. CRM1 (also known as Exportin1) mediates the nuclear export of proteins bearing a leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES). CRM1 forms a complex with the NES containing protein and the small GTPase Ran. This region forms an alpha helical structure formed by six helical hairpin motifs that are structurally similar to the HEAT repeat, but share little sequence similarity to the HEAT repeat.
Cation_ATPase_N	Cation transporter/ATPase, N-terminus. Members of this families are involved in Na+/K+, H+/K+, Ca++ and Mg++ transport.
Toxin_34	Spider toxin omega agatoxin/Tx1 family. The Tx1 family lethal spider neurotoxin induces excitatory symptoms in mice.
Ribosomal_S27e	Ribosomal protein S27. 
Thioredoxin	Thioredoxin. Thioredoxins are small enzymes that participate in redox reactions, via the reversible oxidation of an active centre disulfide bond. Some members with only the active site are not separated from the noise.
NUDIX	NUDIX domain. 
ER	Enhancer of rudimentary. Enhancer of rudimentary is a protein of unknown function that is highly conserved in plants and animals. This protein is found to be an enhancer of the rudimentary gene.
DUF1368	Protein of unknown function (DUF1368). This family consists of several proteins with seem to be specific to red algae plasmids. Members of this family are typically around 415 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF2339	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2339). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
PsbN	Photosystem II reaction centre N protein (psbN). This is a family of small proteins encoded on the chloroplast genome. psbN is involved in photosystem II during photosynthesis, but its exact role is unknown.
DUF1016	Protein of unknown function (DUF1016). Family of uncharacterised proteins found in viruses, archaea and bacteria.
DUF618	Protein of unknown function, DUF618. This family represents a conserved region found in a number of uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins.
DUF1195	Protein of unknown function (DUF1195). This family consists of several plant specific hypothetical proteins of around 160 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF520	Protein of unknown function (DUF520). Family of uncharacterised proteins.
Gag_spuma	Spumavirus gag protein. 
VPS9	Vacuolar sorting protein 9 (VPS9) domain. 
CbiQ	Cobalt transport protein. This family consists of various cobalt transport proteins Most of which are found in Cobalamin (Vitamin B12) biosynthesis operons. In Salmonella the cbiN cbiQ (product CbiQ in this family) and cbiO are likely to form an active cobalt transport system.
Ammonium_transp	Ammonium Transporter Family. 
DUF1742	Fungal protein of unknown function (DUF1742). This is a family of fungal proteins of unknown function.
Photo_RC	Photosynthetic reaction centre protein. 
DUF2285	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2285). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
zf-U1	U1 zinc finger. This family consists of several U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (U1-C) proteins. The U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (U1 snRNP) binds to the pre-mRNA 5' splice site (ss) at early stages of spliceosome assembly. Recruitment of U1 to a class of weak 5' ss is promoted by binding of the protein TIA-1 to uridine-rich sequences immediately downstream from the 5' ss. Binding of TIA-1 in the vicinity of a 5' ss helps to stabilise U1 snRNP recruitment, at least in part, via a direct interaction with U1-C, thus providing one molecular mechanism for the function of this splicing regulator. This domain is probably a zinc-binding. It is found in multiple copies in some members of the family.
TerC	Integral membrane protein TerC family. This family contains a number of integral membrane proteins that also contains the TerC protein. TerC has been implicated in resistance to tellurium. This protein may be involved in efflux of tellurium ions. The tellurite-resistant Escherichia coli strain KL53 was found during testing of the group of clinical isolates for antibiotics and heavy metal ion resistance. Determinant of the tellurite resistance of the strain was located on a large conjugative plasmid. Analyses showed, the genes terB, terC, terD and terE are essential for conservation of the resistance. The members of the family contain a number of conserved aspartates that could be involved in binding to metal ions.
MED14	Mediator complex subunit MED14. Saccharomyces cerevisiae RGR1 mediator complex subunit affects chromatin structure, transcriptional regulation of diverse genes and sporulation, required for glucose repression, HO repression, RME1 repression and sporulation. This subunit is also found in higher eukaryotes and MED14 is the agreed unified nomenclature for this subunit.
MCPVI	Minor capsid protein VI. This minor capsid protein may act as a link between the external capsid and the internal DNA-protein core. The C-terminal 11 residues may function as a protease cofactor leading to enzyme activation.
TrkA_N	TrkA-N domain. This domain is found in a wide variety of proteins. These protein include potassium channels, phosphoesterases, and various other transporters. This domain binds to NAD.
DUF2054	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2054). This entry contains 14 conserved cysteines, three of which are CC-dimers. The region is of approximately 200 residues in length but its function is unknown.
Citrate_synt	Citrate synthase. 
DAO	FAD dependent oxidoreductase. This family includes various FAD dependent oxidoreductases: Glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase EC:1.1.99.5, Sarcosine oxidase beta subunit EC:1.5.3.1, D-alanine oxidase EC:1.4.99.1, D-aspartate oxidase EC:1.4.3.1.
NPD	2-nitropropane dioxygenase. Members of this family catalyse the denitrification of a number of nitroalkanes using either FAD or FMN as a cofactor.
EIAV_GP45	EIAV glycoprotein, gp45. Equine infectious anaemia (EIAV). gp45 is a transmembrane envelope glycoprotein from EIAV. This family is related to HIV GP41 protein pfam00517.
PSI_PSAK	Photosystem I psaG / psaK. 
Peptidase_C30	Coronavirus endopeptidase C30. Corresponds to Merops family C30. These peptidases are involved in viral polyprotein processing in replication.
DUF778	Protein of unknown function (DUF778). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
GDI	GDP dissociation inhibitor. 
NMT	Myristoyl-CoA:protein N-myristoyltransferase, N-terminal domain. The N and C-terminal domains of NMT are structurally similar, each adopting an acyl-CoA N-acyltransferase-like fold.
Endonuclease_NS	DNA/RNA non-specific endonuclease. 
GRP	Glycine rich protein family. This family of proteins includes several glycine rich proteins as well as two nodulins 16 and 24. The family also contains proteins that are induced in response to various stresses.
TBP	Transcription factor TFIID (or TATA-binding protein, TBP). 
ARPC4	ARP2/3 complex 20 kDa subunit (ARPC4). This family consists of several eukaryotic ARP2/3 complex 20 kDa subunit (P20-ARC) proteins. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been implicated in the control of actin polymerisation in cells. The human complex consists of seven subunits which include the actin related proteins Arp2 and Arp3 it has been suggested that the complex promotes actin assembly in lamellipodia and may participate in lamellipodial protrusion.
DHQ_synthase	3-dehydroquinate synthase. The 3-dehydroquinate synthase EC:4.6.1.3 domain is present in isolation in various bacterial 3-dehydroquinate synthases and also present as a domain in the pentafunctional AROM polypeptide. 3-dehydroquinate (DHQ) synthase catalyses the formation of dehydroquinate (DHQ) and orthophosphate from 3-deoxy-D-arabino heptulosonic 7 phosphate. This reaction is part of the shikimate pathway which is involved in the biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids.
Gal-bind_lectin	Galactoside-binding lectin. This family contains galactoside binding lectins. The family also includes enzymes such as human eosinophil lysophospholipase (EC:3.1.1.5).
Trp_oprn_chp	Tryptophan-associated transmembrane protein (Trp_oprn_chp). Members of this family are predicted transmembrane proteins with four membrane-spanning helices. Members are found in the Actinobacteria (Mycobacterium, Corynebacterium, Streptomyces), always associated with genes for tryptophan biosynthesis.
FliL	Flagellar basal body-associated protein FliL. This FliL protein controls the rotational direction of the flagella during chemotaxis. FliL is a cytoplasmic membrane protein associated with the basal body.
RhoGAP	RhoGAP domain. GTPase activator proteins towards Rho/Rac/Cdc42-like small GTPases.
Ribosomal_L28e	Ribosomal L28e protein family. 
DUF688	Protein of unknown function (DUF688). This family contains several uncharacterised proteins found in Arabidopsis thaliana.
DNA_RNApol_7kD	DNA directed RNA polymerase, 7 kDa subunit. 
Nop14	Nop14-like family. Emg1 and Nop14 are novel proteins whose interaction is required for the maturation of the 18S rRNA and for 40S ribosome production.
PNTB	NAD(P) transhydrogenase beta subunit. This family corresponds to the beta subunit of NADP transhydrogenase in prokaryotes, and either the protein N- or C terminal in eukaryotes. The domain is often found in conjunction with pfam01262. Pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase catalyses the reduction of NAD+ to NADPH. A complete loss of activity occurs upon mutation of Gly314 in Escherichia coli.
TFIID-18kDa	Transcription initiation factor IID, 18kD subunit. This family includes the Spt3 yeast transcription factors and the 18kD subunit from human transcription initiation factor IID (TFIID-18). Determination of the crystal structure reveals an atypical histone fold
Dev_Cell_Death	Development and cell death domain. The DCD domain is found in plant proteins involved in development and cell death. The DCD domain is an approximately 130 amino acid long stretch that contains several mostly invariable motifs. These include a FGLP and a LFL motif at the N-terminus and a PAQV and a PLxE motif towards the C-terminus of the domain. The DCD domain is present in proteins with different architectures. Some of these proteins contain additional recognisable motifs, like the KELCH repeats or the ParB domain.
dTDP_sugar_isom	dTDP-4-dehydrorhamnose 3,5-epimerase. This family catalyse the isomerisation of dTDP-4-dehydro-6-deoxy -D-glucose with dTDP-4-dehydro-6-deoxy-L-mannose. The EC number of this enzyme is 5.1.3.13.
CHD5	CHD5-like protein. Members of this family are probably coiled-coil proteins that are similar to the CHD5 (Congenital heart disease 5) protein. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae this protein localises to the ER and is thought to play a homeostatic role.
Smr	Smr domain. This family includes the Smr (Small MutS Related) proteins, and the C-terminal region of the MutS2 protein. It has been suggested that this domain interacts with the MutS1 protein in the case of Smr proteins and with the N-terminal MutS related region of MutS2.
Sod_Fe_C	Iron/manganese superoxide dismutases, C-terminal domain. superoxide dismutases (SODs) catalyse the conversion of superoxide radicals to hydrogen peroxide and molecular oxygen. Three evolutionarily distinct families of SODs are known, of which the Mn/Fe-binding family is one. In humans, there is a cytoplasmic Cu/Zn SOD, and a mitochondrial Mn/Fe SOD. C-terminal domain is a mixed alpha/beta fold.
Adeno_IVa2	Adenovirus IVa2 protein. IVa2 protein can interact with the adenoviral packaging signal and that this interaction involves DNA sequences that have previously been demonstrated to be required for packaging. During the course of lytic infection, the adenovirus major late promoter (MLP) is induced to high levels after replication of viral DNA has started. IVa2 is a transcriptional activator of the major late promoter.
ENTH	ENTH domain. The ENTH (Epsin N-terminal homology) domain is found in proteins involved in endocytosis and cytoskeletal machinery. The function of the ENTH domain is unknown.
DuoxA	Dual oxidase maturation factor. DuoxA (Dual oxidase maturation factor) is the essential protein necessary for the final release of DUOX2 (an NADPH:O2 oxidoreductase flavoprotein) from the endoplasmic reticulum. Dual oxidases (DUOX1 and DUOX2) constitute the catalytic core of the hydrogen peroxide generator, which generates H2O2 at the apical membrane of thyroid follicular cells, essential for iodination of thyroglobulin by thyroid peroxidases. DuoxA carries five membrane-integral regions including a reverse signal-anchor with external N-terminus (type III) and two N-glycosylation sites. It is conserved from nematodes to humans.
HS1_rep	Repeat in HS1/Cortactin. The function of this repeat is unknown. Seven copies are found in cortactin and four copies are found in HS1. The repeats are always found amino terminal to an SH3 domain pfam00018.
Gamma-thionin	Gamma-thionin family. 
DUF1116	Protein of unknown function (DUF1116). This family contains hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
Glyco_transf_29	Glycosyltransferase family 29 (sialyltransferase). Members of this family belong to glycosyltransferase family 29.
PIG-F	GPI biosynthesis protein family Pig-F. PIG-F is involved in glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor biosynthesis.
DUF1518	Domain of unknown function (DUF1518). This domain, which is usually found tandemly repeated, is found various receptor co-activating proteins.
MTHFR	Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase. This family includes the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase EC:1.7.99.5 from bacteria and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase EC: 1.5.1.20 from eukaryotes. The structure for this domain is known to be a TIM barrel.
TOBE_2	TOBE domain. The TOBE domain (Transport-associated OB) always occurs as a dimer as the C-terminal strand of each domain is supplied by the partner. Probably involved in the recognition of small ligands such as molybdenum and sulphate. Found in ABC transporters immediately after the ATPase domain. In this family a strong RPE motif is found at the presumed N-terminus of the domain.
NusG	Transcription termination factor nusG. 
Peptidase_M20	Peptidase family M20/M25/M40. This family includes a range of zinc metallopeptidases belonging to several families in the peptidase classification. Family M20 are Glutamate carboxypeptidases. Peptidase family M25 contains X-His dipeptidases.
AlkA_N	AlkA N-terminal domain. 
NIR_SIR	Nitrite and sulphite reductase 4Fe-4S domain. Sulphite and nitrite reductases are vital in the biosynthetic assimilation of sulphur and nitrogen, respectfully. They are also both important for the dissimilation of oxidised anions for energy transduction.
PNK3P	Polynucleotide kinase 3 phosphatase. Polynucleotide kinase 3 phosphatases play a role in the repair of single breaks in DNA induced by DNA-damaging agents such as gamma radiation and camptothecin.
ATP_bind_4	ATP-binding region. This family of proteins probably binds ATP. This domain is about 200 amino acids long with a strongly conserved motif SGGKD at the N terminus.In some members of this family this domain is associated with pfam01042.
P34-Arc	Arp2/3 complex, 34 kD subunit p34-Arc. Arp2/3 protein complex has been implicated in the control of actin polymerisation in cells. The human complex consists of seven subunits which include the actin related Arp2 and Arp3, and five others referred to as p41-Arc, p34-Arc, p21-Arc, p20-Arc, and p16-Arc. This family represents the p34-Arc subunit.
Mon1	Trafficking protein Mon1. Members of this family have been called SAND proteins although these proteins do not contain a SAND domain. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae a protein complex of Mon1 and Ccz1 functions with the small GTPase Ypt7 to mediate vesicle trafficking to the vacuole. The Mon1/Ccz1 complex is conserved in eukaryotic evolution and members of this family (previously known as DUF254) are distant homologues to domains of known structure that assemble into cargo vesicle adapter (AP) complexes. describes orthologues in Fugu rubripes.
PsbQ	Oxygen evolving enhancer protein 3 (PsbQ). This family consists of the plant specific oxygen evolving enhancer protein 3 (PsbQ). Photosystem II (PSII)1 is a pigment-protein complex, which consists of at least 25 different protein subunits, at present denoted PsbA-Z according to the genes that encode them. PsbQ plays an important role in the lumenal oxygen-evolving activity of PSII from higher plants and green algae.
Thermopsin	Thermopsin. This family consists of several thermopsin proteins from archaebacteria. Thermopsin is a thermostable acid protease which is capable of hydrolysing the following bonds: Leu-Val, Leu-Tyr, Phe-Phe, Phe-Tyr, and Tyr-Thr. The specificity of thermopsin is therefore similar to that of pepsin, that is, it prefers large hydrophobic residues at both sides of the scissile bond.
Aldo_ket_red	Aldo/keto reductase family. This family includes a number of K+ ion channel beta chain regulatory domains - these are reported to have oxidoreductase activity.
NAC	NAC domain. 
Bromo_TP	Bromodomain associated. This domain is predicted to bind DNA and is often found associated with pfam00439 and in transcription factors. It has a histone-like fold.
DUF2398	Protein of unknown function (DUF2398). Proteins in this entry are encoded within a conserved gene four-gene neighbourhood found sporadically in a phylogenetically broad range of bacteria including: Nocardia farcinica, Symbiobacterium thermophilum, and Streptomyces avermitilis (Actinobacteria), Geobacillus kaustophilus (Firmicutes), Azoarcus sp. EbN1 and Ralstonia solanacearum (Betaproteobacteria).
OmpA	OmpA family. The Pfam entry also includes MotB and related proteins which are not included in the Prosite family.
PRCC_Cterm	Mitotic checkpoint protein PRCC_Cterm. This is the highly conserved C-terminal domain of the renal papillary carcinoma protein PRCC. The function of this domain is not known.
zf-CW	CW-type Zinc Finger. This domain appears to be a zinc finger. The alignment shows four conserved cysteine residues and a conserved tryptophan. It was first identified by, and is predicted to be a "highly specialised mononuclear four-cysteine zinc finger...that plays a role in DNA binding and/or promoting protein-protein interactions in complicated eukaryotic processes including...chromatin methylation status and early embryonic development." Weak homology to pfam00628 further evidences these predictions (personal obs: C Yeats). Twelve different CW-domain-containing protein subfamilies are described, with different subfamilies being characteristic of vertebrates, higher plants and other animals in which these domain is found.
Ribosomal_L20	Ribosomal protein L20. 
MuDR	MuDR family transposase. This region is found in plant proteins that are presumed to be the transposases for Mutator transposable elements. These transposons contain two ORFs. The molecular function of this region is unknown.
DUF540	Protein of unknown function (DUF540). Uncharacterised bacterial integral membrane protein, possibly involved in cysteine biosynthesis. Speculated to be involved in sulphate transport.
Paramyx_RNA_pol	Paramyxovirus RNA dependent RNA polymerase. Paramyxoviridae, like other non-segmented negative strand RNA viruses, have an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase composed of two subunits, a large protein L and a phosphoprotein P. This is a protein family of the L protein. The L protein confers the RNA polymerase activity on the complex. The P protein acts as a transcription factor.
TRAPP	Transport protein particle (TRAPP) component. TRAPP plays a key role in the targeting and/or fusion of ER-to-Golgi transport vesicles with their acceptor compartment. TRAPP is a large multimeric protein that contains at least 10 subunits. This family contains many TRAPP family proteins. The Bet3 subunit is one of the better characterised TRAPP proteins and has a dimeric structure with hydrophobic channels. The channel entrances are located on a putative membrane-interacting surface that is distinctively flat, wide and decorated with positively charged residues. Bet3 is proposed to localise TRAPP to the Golgi.
cobW	CobW/HypB/UreG, nucleotide-binding domain. This domain is found in HypB, a hydrogenase expression / formation protein, and UreG a urease accessory protein. Both these proteins contain a P-loop nucleotide binding motif. HypB has GTPase activity and is a guanine nucleotide binding protein. It is not known whether UreG binds GTP or some other nucleotide. Both enzymes are involved in nickel binding. HypB can store nickel and is required for nickel dependent hydrogenase expression. UreG is required for functional incorporation of the urease nickel metallocenter. GTP hydrolysis may required by these proteins for nickel incorporation into other nickel proteins. This family of domains also contains P47K, a Pseudomonas chlororaphis protein needed for nitrile hydratase expression, and the cobW gene product, which may be involved in cobalamin biosynthesis in Pseudomonas denitrificans.
NADH5_C	NADH dehydrogenase subunit 5 C-terminus. This family represents the C-terminal region of several NADH dehydrogenase subunit 5 proteins and is found in conjunction with pfam00361 and pfam00662.
Alpha_adaptinC2	Adaptin C-terminal domain. Alpha adaptin is a heterotetramer which regulates clathrin-bud formation. The carboxyl-terminal appendage of the alpha subunit regulates translocation of endocytic accessory proteins to the bud site. This ig-fold domain is found in alpha, beta and gamma adaptins.
BcrAD_BadFG	BadF/BadG/BcrA/BcrD ATPase family. This family includes the BadF and BadG proteins that are two subunits of Benzoyl-CoA reductase, that may be involved in ATP hydrolysis. The family also includes an activase subunit from the enzyme 2-hydroxyglutaryl-CoA dehydratase. A member from Aquifex aeolicus contains two copies of this region suggesting that the family may structurally dimerise. This family appears to be related to pfam00370.
DUF1995	Domain of unknown function (DUF1995). This family of proteins are functionally uncharacterised.
NOSIC	NOSIC (NUC001) domain. This is the central domain in Nop56/SIK1-like proteins.
ATG_C	ATG C terminal domain. ATG2 (also known as Apg2) is a peripheral membrane protein. It functions in both cytoplasm to vacuole targeting and autophagy.
GTP_cyclohydro2	GTP cyclohydrolase II. GTP cyclohydrolase II catalyses the first committed step in the biosynthesis of riboflavin.
ABC2_membrane	ABC-2 type transporter. 
ATG11	Autophagy-related protein 11. This is a family of proteins involved in telomere maintenance. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe this protein is called taf1 (taz1 interacting factor). Taz1 is part of the telomere cap complex. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae this protein is called ATG11 and is known to be involved in vacuolar targeting and peroxisome degradation.
DUF1762	Protein of unknown function (DUF1762). This is a family of proteins of unknown function. Yeast IWR1 is known to interact with RNA polymerase II and deletion of this protein results in hypersensitivity to the K1 killer toxin.
SLIDE	SLIDE. The SLIDE domain adopts a secondary structure comprising a main core of three alpha-helices. It has a role in DNA binding, contacting DNA target sites similar to c-Myb (pfam00249) repeats or homeodomains.
Pox_MCEL	mRNA capping enzyme. This family of enzymes are related to pfam03919.
Fucokinase	L-fucokinase. In the salvage pathway of GDP-L-fucose, free cytosolic fucose is phosphorylated by L-fucokinase to form L-fucose-L-phosphate, which is then further converted to GDP-L-fucose in the reaction catalysed by GDP-L-fucose pyrophosphorylase.
Mod_r	Modifier of rudimentary (Mod(r)) protein. This family represents a conserved region approximately 150 residues long within a number of eukaryotic proteins that show homology with Drosophila melanogaster Modifier of rudimentary (Mod(r)) proteins. The N-terminal half of Mod(r) proteins is acidic, whereas the C-terminal half is basic, and both of these regions are represented in this family. Members of this family include the Vps37 subunit of the endosomal sorting complex ESCRT-I, a complex involved in recruiting transport machinery for protein sorting at the multivesicular body (MVB). The yeast ESCRT-I complex consists of three proteins (Vps23, Vps28 and Vps37). The mammalian homologue of Vps37 interacts with Tsg101 (Pfam: PF05743) through its mod(r) domain and its function is essential for lysosomal sorting of EGF receptors.
HAND	HAND. The HAND domain adopts a secondary structure consisting of four alpha helices, three of which (H2, H3, H4) form an L-like configuration. Helix H2 runs antiparallel to helices H3 and H4, packing closely against helix H4, whilst helix H1 reposes in the concave surface formed by these three helices and runs perpendicular to them. The domain confers DNA and nucleosome binding properties to the protein.
DUF1111	Protein of unknown function (DUF1111). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
COG6	Conserved oligomeric complex COG6. COG6 is a component of the conserved oligomeric golgi complex, which is composed of eight different subunits and is required for normal golgi morphology and localisation.
peroxidase	Peroxidase. 
Cofilin_ADF	Cofilin/tropomyosin-type actin-binding protein. Severs actin filaments and binds to actin monomers.
NAD_binding_2	NAD binding domain of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. The NAD binding domain of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase adopts a Rossmann fold.
Phage_tube	Phage tail tube protein FII. The major structural components of the contractile tail of bacteriophage P2 are proteins FI and FII, which are believed to be the tail sheath and tube proteins, respectively.
7TM_GPCR_Srb	Serpentine type 7TM GPCR chemoreceptor Srb. Chemoreception is mediated in Caenorhabditis elegans by members of the seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor class (7TM GPCRs) of proteins which are of the serpentine type. Srb is part of the Sra superfamily of chemoreceptors. Chemoperception is one of the central senses of soil nematodes like Caenorhabditis elegans which are otherwise 'blind' and 'deaf'.
LCM	Leucine carboxyl methyltransferase. Family of leucine carboxyl methyltransferases EC:2.1.1.-. This family may need divides a the full alignment contains a significantly shorter mouse sequence.
LpxB	Lipid-A-disaccharide synthetase. This is a family of lipid-A-disaccharide synthetases, EC:2.4.2.128. These enzymes catalyse the reaction: UDP-2,3-bis(3-hydroxytetradecanoyl) glucosamine + 2,3-bis(3-hydroxytetradecanoyl)-beta-D-glucosaminyl 1-phosphate <=> UDP + 2,3-bis(3-hydroxytetradecanoyl)-D-glucosaminyl-1,6 -beta-D-2,3-bis(3-hydroxytetradecanoyl)-beta-D-glucosaminyl 1-phosphate. These enzymes catalyse the fist disaccharide step in the synthesis of lipid-A-disaccharide.
Rhamnogal_lyase	Rhamnogalacturonate lyase family. Rhamnogalacturonate lyase (EC:4.2.2.-) degrades the rhamnogalacturonan I (RG-I) backbone of pectin. This family contains mainly members from plants, but also contains the plant pathogen Erwinia chrysanthemi.
NAD_kinase	ATP-NAD kinase. Members of this family include ATP-NAD kinases EC:2.7.1.23, which catalyses the phosphorylation of NAD to NADP utilising ATP and other nucleoside triphosphates as well as inorganic polyphosphate as a source of phosphorus. Also includes NADH kinases EC:2.7.1.86.
DUF2503	Protein of unknown function (DUF2503). Members of this family are all fungal. The function is not known but the two yeast members are annotated as being non-classical export-related proteins.
RdRP_2	RNA dependent RNA polymerase. This family may represent an RNA dependent RNA polymerase. The family also contains the following proteins: 2A protein from bromoviruses putative RNA dependent RNA polymerase from tobamoviruses Non structural polyprotein from togaviruses
DUF498	Protein of unknown function (DUF498/DUF598). This is a large family of uncharacterised proteins found in all domains of life. The structure shows a novel fold with three beta sheets. A dimeric form is found in the crystal structure. It was suggested that the cleft in between the two monomers might bing nucleic acid.
Microtub_assoc	Microtubule associated. This presumed domain has been identified in two microtubule associated proteins in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Mto1 and Pcp1. Mto1 has been identified in association with spindle pole body and non-spindle pole body microtubules. The pericentrin homolog Pcp1 is also associated with the fungal centrosome or spindle pole body (SPB).
PetM	PetM family of cytochrome b6f complex subunit 7. This family consists of the PetM family of cytochrome b6f complex subunit IV. The cytochrome b6f complex consists of 7 subunits and contains 2 beta hemes and 1 chlorophyll alpha per cytochrome f. It is highly active in transferring electrons from decylplastoquinol to oxidised plastocyanin.
Flagellin_N	Bacterial flagellin N-terminus. Flagellins polymerise to form bacterial flagella. This family includes flagellins and hook associated protein 3.
MARCKS	MARCKS family. 
PCNA_C	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen, C-terminal domain. N-terminal and C-terminal domains of PCNA are topologically identical. Three PCNA molecules are tightly associated to form a closed ring encircling duplex DNA.
Rad51	Rad51. Rad51 is a DNA repair and recombination protein and is a homologue of the bacterial ATPase RecA protein.
DUF1666	Protein of unknown function (DUF1666). These sequences are derived from hypothetical plant proteins of unknown function. The region in question is approximately 250 residues long.
AsiA	Anti-Sigma Factor A. Anti-sigma factor A is a transcriptional inhibitor that inhibits sigma 70-directed transcription by weakening its interaction with the core of the host's RNA polymerase. It is an all-helical protein, composed of six helical segments and intervening loops and turns, as well as a helix-turn-helix DNA binding motif, although neither free anti-sigma factor nor anti-sigma factor bound to sigma-70 has been shown to interact directly with DNA. In solution, the protein forms a symmetric dimer of small (10.59 kDa) protomers, which are composed of helix and coil regions and are devoid of beta-strand/sheet secondary structural elements.
Fip1	Fip1 motif. This short motif is about 40 amino acids in length. In the Fip1 protein that is a component of a yeast pre-mRNA polyadenylation factor that directly interacts with poly(A) polymerase. This region of Fip1 is needed for the interaction with the Th1 subunit of the complex and for specific polyadenylation of the cleaved mRNA precursor.
AIG2	AIG2-like family. AIG2 is an Arabidopsis proteins that exhibit RPS2- and avrRpt2-dependent induction early after infection with Pseudomonas syringae pv maculicola strain ES4326 carrying avrRpt2.
DUF1176	Protein of unknown function (DUF1176). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 340 residues in length. Members of this family contain six highly conserved cysteine residues. The function of this family is unknown.
Vps16_N	Vps16, N-terminal region. This protein forms part of the Class C vacuolar protein sorting (Vps) complex. Vps16 is essential for vacuolar protein sorting, which is essential for viability in plants, but not yeast. The Class C Vps complex is required for SNARE-mediated membrane fusion at the lysosome-like yeast vacuole. It is thought to play essential roles in membrane docking and fusion at the Golgi-to-endosome and endosome-to-vacuole stages of transport. The role of VPS16 in this complex is not known.
PAL	Phenylalanine and histidine ammonia-lyase. 
Rer1	Rer1 family. RER1 family protein are involved in involved in the retrieval of some endoplasmic reticulum membrane proteins from the early golgi compartment. The C terminus of yeast Rer1p interacts with a coatomer complex.
Trehalase	Trehalase. Trehalase (EC:3.2.1.28) is known to recycle trehalose to glucose. Trehalose is a physiological hallmark of heat-shock response in yeast and protects of proteins and membranes against a variety of stresses. This family is found in conjunction with pfam07492 in fungi.
CNP1	CNP1-like family. This family of proteins are likely to be lipoproteins. CNP1 (cryptic neisserial protein) has been expressed in Escherichia coli and shown to be localised periplasmicly.
Adeno_E1A	Early E1A protein. This is a family of adenovirus early E1A proteins. The E1A protein is 32 kDa it can however be cleaved to yield the 28 kDa protein. The E1A protein is responsible for the transcriptional activation of the early genes with in the viral genome at the start of the infection process as well as some cellular genes.
NuA4	Histone acetyltransferase subunit NuA4. The NuA4 histone acetyltransferase (HAT) multisubunit complex is responsible for acetylation of histone H4 and H2A N-terminal tails in yeast. NuA4 complexes are highly conserved in eukaryotes and play primary roles in transcription, cellular response to DNA damage, and cell cycle control.
Ribosomal_L34	Ribosomal protein L34. 
S-methyl_trans	Homocysteine S-methyltransferase. This is a family of related homocysteine S-methyltransferases enzymes: 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine S-methyltransferases also known EC:2.1.1.13,; Betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase (vitamin B12 dependent), EC:2.1.1.5,; and Homocysteine S-methyltransferase, EC:2.1.1.10,.
YIF1	YIF1. YIF1 (Yip1 interacting factor) is an integral membrane protein that is required for membrane fusion of ER derived vesicles. It also plays a role in the biogenesis of ER derived COPII transport vesicles.
VirE	Virulence-associated protein E. This family contains several bacterial virulence-associated protein E like proteins.
MT-A70	MT-A70. MT-A70 is the S-adenosylmethionine-binding subunit of human mRNA:m6A methyl-transferase (MTase), an enzyme that sequence-specifically methylates adenines in pre-mRNAs.
ParBc_2	Putative ParB-like nuclease. This domain is probably distantly related to pfam02195. Suggesting these uncharacterised proteins have a nuclease function.
RVT_2	Reverse transcriptase (RNA-dependent DNA polymerase). A reverse transcriptase gene is usually indicative of a mobile element such as a retrotransposon or retrovirus. Reverse transcriptases occur in a variety of mobile elements, including retrotransposons, retroviruses, group II introns, bacterial msDNAs, hepadnaviruses, and caulimoviruses. This Pfam entry includes reverse transcriptases not recognised by the pfam00078 model.
Ada3	Histone acetyltransferases subunit 3. Ada3 is a family of proteins conserved from yeasts to humans. It is an essential component of the Ada transcriptional coactivator (alteration/deficiency in activation) complex. Ada3 plays a key role in linking histone acetyltransferase-containing complexes to p53 (tumour suppressor protein) thereby regulating p53 acetylation, stability and transcriptional activation following DNA damage.
DUF1168	Protein of unknown function (DUF1168). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
Pap_E4	E4 protein. This is is a family of Papillomavirus proteins, E4, coded for by ORF4. A splice variant, E1-E4, exists but neither the function of E4 or E1-E4 is known.
L_lactis_ph-MCP	Lactococcus lactis bacteriophage major capsid protein. This family consists of several Lactococcus lactis bacteriophage major capsid proteins.
PigN	Phosphatidylinositolglycan class N (PIG-N). Phosphatidylinositolglycan class N (PIG-N) is a mammalian homologue of the yeast protein MCD4P and is expressed in the endoplasmic reticulum. PIG-N is essential for glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins are cell surface-localised proteins that serve many important cellular functions.
Pox_C4_C10	Poxvirus C4/C10 protein. 
Rapamycin_bind	Rapamycin binding domain. This domain forms an alpha helical structure and binds to rapamycin.
PRK	Phosphoribulokinase / Uridine kinase family. 
ProSAAS	ProSAAS precursor. This family consists of several mammalian proSAAS precursor proteins. ProSAAS mRNA is expressed primarily in brain and other neuroendocrine tissues (pituitary, adrenal, pancreas); within brain, the mRNA is broadly distributed among neurons. ProSAAS is thought to be an endogenous inhibitor of prohormone convertase 1 may function as a neuropeptide. N-terminal fragments of proSAAS in intracellular Pick Bodies (PBs) may cause a functional disturbance of neurons in Pick's disease.
Sua5_yciO_yrdC	yrdC domain. This domain has been shown to preferentially bind to dsRNA. The domain is found in SUA5 as well as HypF and YrdC.
L15	Ribosomal protein L15. 
SAPS	SIT4 phosphatase-associated protein. This family includes a conserved region from a group of yeast proteins that associate with the SIT4 phosphatase. This association is required for SIT4's role in G1 cyclin transcription and for bud formation. This family also includes homologous regions from other eukaryotes.
Ribosomal_S12	Ribosomal protein S12. 
AlcB	Siderophore biosynthesis protein domain. AlcB is the conserved 45 residue region of one of the proteins of a complex which mediates alcaligin biosynthesis in Bordetella and aerobactin biosynthesis in Escherichia coli and other bacteria. The protein appears to catalyse N-acylation of the hydroxylamine group in N-hydroxyputrescine with succinyl CoA - an activated mono-thioester derivative of succinic acid that is an intermediate in the Krebs cycle.
Duffy_binding	Duffy binding domain. This domain is found in Plasmodium Duffy binding proteins. Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium knowlesi merozoites invade human erythrocytes that express Duffy blood group surface determinants. The Duffy receptor family is localised in micronemes, an organelle found in all organisms of the phylum Apicomplexa.
DUF791	Protein of unknown function (DUF791). This family consists of several eukaryotic proteins of unknown function.
TRAP_alpha	Translocon-associated protein (TRAP), alpha subunit. The alpha-subunit of the TRAP complex (TRAP alpha) is a single-spanning membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) which is found in proximity of nascent polypeptide chains translocating across the membrane.
Acyl-ACP_TE	Acyl-ACP thioesterase. This family consists of various acyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) thioesterases (TE) these terminate fatty acyl group extension via hydrolysing an acyl group on a fatty acid.
Bunya_RdRp	Bunyavirus RNA dependent RNA polymerase. The bunyaviruses are enveloped viruses with a genome consisting of 3 ssRNA segments (called L, M and S). The nucleocapsid protein is encode on the small (S) genomic RNA. The L segment codes for an RNA polymerase. This family contains the RNA dependent RNA polymerase on the L segment.
Tmemb_14	Transmembrane proteins 14C. This family of short membrane proteins are as yet uncharacterised.
HHV6-IE	Human herpesvirus 6 immediate early protein. The proteins in this family are poorly characterised, but an investigationhas indicated that the immediate early protein is required the down-regulation of MHC class I expression in dendritic cells. Human herpesvirus 6 immediate early protein is also referred to as U90.
Phytochrome	Phytochrome region. This family contains a region specific to phytochrome proteins.
COX2_TM	Cytochrome C oxidase subunit II, transmembrane domain. The N-terminal domain of cytochrome C oxidase contains two transmembrane alpha-helices.
ORC3_N	Origin recognition complex (ORC) subunit 3 N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminus (approximately 300 residues) of subunit 3 of the eukaryotic origin recognition complex (ORC). Origin recognition complex (ORC) is composed of six subunits that are essential for cell viability. They collectively bind to the autonomously replicating sequence (ARS) in a sequence-specific manner and lead to the chromatin loading of other replication factors that are essential for initiation of DNA replication.
Pollen_Ole_e_I	Pollen proteins Ole e I family. 
SurE	Survival protein SurE. Escherichia coli cells with the surE gene disrupted are found to survive poorly in stationary phase. It is suggested that SurE may be involved in stress response. Yeast also contains a member of the family. A sequence from Yarrowia lipolytica can complement a mutation in acid phosphatase, suggesting that members of this family could be phosphatases.
ASD2	Apx/Shroom domain ASD2. This region is found in the actin binding protein Shroom which mediates apical contriction in epithelial cells and is required for neural tube closure.
RNA_GG_bind	PHAX RNA-binding domain. RNA_GG_bind is the highly conserved U3 snoRNA-binding domain of PHAX (phosphorylated adaptor for RNA export) whose function is to transport U3 snoRNA from the nucleus after transcription. It is characterised by having two pairs of adjacent glycines, as GGx12GG.
PspA_IM30	PspA/IM30 family. This family includes PspA a protein that suppresses sigma54-dependent transcription. The PspA protein, a negative regulator of the Escherichia coli phage shock psp operon, is produced when virulence factors are exported through secretins in many Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria and its homologue in plants, VIPP1, plays a critical role in thylakoid biogenesis, essential for photosynthesis. Activation of transcription by the enhancer-dependent bacterial sigma(54) containing RNA polymerase occurs through ATP hydrolysis-driven protein conformational changes enabled by activator proteins that belong to the large AAA(+) mechanochemical protein family. It has been shown that PspA directly and specifically acts upon and binds to the AAA(+) domain of the PspF transcription activator.
PHR	PHR domain. This domain is called PHR as it was original found in the proteins PAM, highwire and RPM. This domain can be duplicated in the highwire, PFAM and PRM sequence. The C-terminal region of the protein BTBD1 includes the PHR domain and is known to interact with Topoisomerase I, an enzyme which relaxes DNA supercoils.
Ribosomal_L18p	Ribosomal L18p/L5e family. This family includes ribosomal proteins from the large subunit. This family includes L18 from bacteria and L5 from eukaryotes. It has been shown that the amino terminal 93 amino acids of the rat 60S ribosomal protein L5 are necessary and sufficient to bind 5S rRNA in vitro. Suggesting that the entire family has a function in rRNA binding.
Usher	Fimbrial Usher protein. This protein is involved in biogenesis of gram negative bacterial pili.
PAPA-1	PAPA-1-like conserved region. Family of proteins with a conserved region found in PAPA-1, a PAP-1 binding protein.
Glypican	Glypican. 
Collagen	Collagen triple helix repeat (20 copies). Members of this family belong to the collagen superfamily. Collagens are generally extracellular structural proteins involved in formation of connective tissue structure. The alignment contains 20 copies of the G-X-Y repeat that forms a triple helix. The first position of the repeat is glycine, the second and third positions can be any residue but are frequently proline and hydroxyproline. Collagens are post translationally modified by proline hydroxylase to form the hydroxyproline residues. Defective hydroxylation is the cause of scurvy. Some members of the collagen superfamily are not involved in connective tissue structure but share the same triple helical structure.
Cupin_3	Protein of unknown function (DUF861). This family consists of several proteins which seem to be specific to plants and bacteria. The function of this family is unknown.
LYTB	LytB protein. The mevalonate-independent 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway for isoprenoid biosynthesis is essential in many eubacteria, plants, and the malaria parasite. The LytB gene is involved in the trunk line of the MEP pathway.
Tyrosinase	Common central domain of tyrosinase. This family also contains polyphenol oxidases and some hemocyanins. Binds two copper ions via two sets of three histidines. This family is related to pfam00372.
DUF641	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF641). Plant protein of unknown function.
tRNA_bind	Putative tRNA binding domain. This domain is found in prokaryotic methionyl-tRNA synthetases, prokaryotic phenylalanyl tRNA synthetases the yeast GU4 nucleic-binding protein (G4p1 or p42, ARC1), human tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase, and endothelial-monocyte activating polypeptide II. G4p1 binds specifically to tRNA form a complex with methionyl-tRNA synthetases. In human tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase this domain may direct tRNA to the active site of the enzyme. This domain may perform a common function in tRNA aminoacylation.
AA_permease	Amino acid permease. 
Paf1	Paf1. Members of this family are components of the RNA polymerase II associated Paf1 complex. The Paf1 complex functions during the elongation phase of transcription in conjunction with Spt4-Spt5 and Spt16-Pob3i.
SelP_N	Selenoprotein P, N terminal region. SelP is the only known eukaryotic selenoprotein that contains multiple selenocysteine (Sec) residues, and accounts for more than 50% of the selenium content of rat and human plasma. It is thought to be glycosylated. SelP may have antioxidant properties. It can attach to epithelial cells, and may protect vascular endothelial cells against peroxynitrite toxicity. The high selenium content of SelP suggests that it may be involved in selenium intercellular transport or storage. The promoter structure of bovine SelP suggest that it may be involved in countering heavy metal intoxication, and may also have a developmental function. The N-terminal region of SelP can exist independently of the C terminal region. Zebrafish selenoprotein Pb lacks the C terminal Sec-rich region, and a protein encoded by the rat SelP gene and lacking this region has also been reported. N-terminal region contains a conserved SecxxCys motif, which is similar to the CysxxCys found in thioredoxins. It is speculated that the N terminal region may adopt a thioredoxin fold and catalyse redox reactions. The N-terminal region also contains a His-rich region, which is thought to mediate heparin binding. Binding to heparan proteoglycans could account for the membrane binding properties of SelP.
G_glu_transpept	Gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. 
A2M_N_2	Alpha-2-macroglobulin family N-terminal region. This family includes a region of the alpha-2-macroglobulin family.
3_5_exonuc	3'-5' exonuclease. This domain is responsible for the 3'-5' exonuclease proofreading activity of Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I (polI) and other enzymes, it catalyses the hydrolysis of unpaired or mismatched nucleotides. This domain consists of the amino-terminal half of the Klenow fragment in Escherichia coli polI it is also found in the Werner syndrome helicase (WRN), focus forming activity 1 protein (FFA-1) and ribonuclease D (RNase D). Werner syndrome is a human genetic disorder causing premature aging; the WRN protein has helicase activity in the 3'-5' direction. The FFA-1 protein is required for formation of a replication foci and also has helicase activity; it is a homologue of the WRN protein. RNase D is a 3'-5' exonuclease involved in tRNA processing. Also found in this family is the autoantigen PM/Scl thought to be involved in polymyositis-scleroderma overlap syndrome.
PAP_assoc	Poly(A) polymerase. This domain is found in poly(A) polymerases and has been shown to have polynucleotide adenylyltransferase activity. Proteins in this family have been located to both the nucleus and cytoplasm.
PC4	Transcriptional Coactivator p15 (PC4). p15 has a bipartite structure composed of an amino-terminal regulatory domain and a carboxy-terminal cryptic DNA-binding domain. The DNA-binding activity of the carboxy-terminal is disguised by the amino-terminal p15 domain. Activity is controlled by protein kinases that target the regulatory domain.
RIO1	RIO1 family. This is a family of atypical serine kinases which are found in archaea, bacteria and eukaryotes. Activity of Rio1 is vital in Saccharomyces cerevisiae for the processing of ribosomal RNA, as well as for proper cell cycle progression and chromosome maintenance. The structure of RIO1 has been determined.
DEK_C	DEK C terminal domain. DEK is a chromatin associated protein that is linked with cancers and autoimmune disease. This domain is found at the C terminal of DEK and is of clinical importance since it can reverse the characteristic abnormal DNA-mutagen sensitivity in fibroblasts from ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) patients. The structure of this domain shows it to be homologous to the E2F/DP transcription factor family. This domain is also found in chitin synthase proteins, and in protein phosphatases.
Cast	RIM-binding protein of the cytomatrix active zone. This is a family of proteins that form part of the CAZ (cytomatrix at the active zone) complex which is involved in determining the site of synaptic vesicle fusion. The C-terminus is a PDZ-binding motif that binds directly to RIM (a small G protein Rab-3A effector). The family also contains four coiled-coil domains.
PHP	PHP domain. The PHP (Polymerase and Histidinol Phosphatase) domain is a putative phosphoesterase domain.
Sof1	Sof1-like domain. Sof1 is essential for cell growth and is a component of the nucleolar rRNA processing machinery.
Peptidase_S9_N	Prolyl oligopeptidase, N-terminal beta-propeller domain. This unusual 7-stranded beta-propeller domain protects the catalytic triad of prolyl oligopeptidase (see pfam00326), excluding larger peptides and proteins from proteolysis in the cytosol.
PhageMin_Tail	Phage-related minor tail protein. Members of this family are found in putative phage tail tape measure proteins.
Transposase_2	Probable transposase. This family includes IS891, IS1136 and IS1341.
DUF2055	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2055). This entry is of a protein of approximately 160 residues which is conserved from plants to humans. The function is unknown.
DALR_1	DALR anticodon binding domain. This all alpha helical domain is the anticodon binding domain in Arginyl and glycyl tRNA synthetase. This domain is known as the DALR domain after characteristic conserved amino acids.
DUF2048	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2048). The proteins in this family are conserved from plants to vertebrates. The function is unknown.
RRS1	Ribosome biogenesis regulatory protein (RRS1). This family consists of several eukaryotic ribosome biogenesis regulatory (RRS1) proteins. RRS1 is a nuclear protein that is essential for the maturation of 25 S rRNA and the 60 S ribosomal subunit assembly in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
ChAPs	ChAPs (Chs5p-Arf1p-binding proteins). ChAPs (Chs5p-Arf1p-binding proteins) are required for the export of specialised cargo from the Golgi. They physically interact with Chs3, Chs5 and the small GTPase Arf1, and they form also interactions with each other.
Brix	Brix domain. 
Glyoxal_oxid_N	Glyoxal oxidase N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminus (approximately 300 residues) of a number of plant and fungal glyoxal oxidase enzymes. Glyoxal oxidase catalyses the oxidation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids, coupled with reduction of dioxygen to hydrogen peroxide. It is an essential component of the extracellular lignin degradation pathways of the wood-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium.
rRNA_methylase	Putative rRNA methylase. This family contains a number of putative rRNA methylases. Note that many family members are hypothetical proteins.
Ribosomal_S3_N	Ribosomal protein S3, N-terminal domain. This family contains a central domain pfam00013, hence the amino and carboxyl-terminal domains are stored separately.
DUF770	Protein of unknown function (DUF770). This family consists of several proteins of unknown function from various bacterial species.
XH	XH domain. The XH (rice gene X Homology) domain is found in a family of plant proteins including gene X. The molecular function of these proteins is unknown. However these proteins usually contain an XS domain that is also found in the PTGS protein SGS3. This domain contains a conserved glutamate residue that may be functionally important.
XG_FTase	Xyloglucan fucosyltransferase. Plant cell walls are crucial for development, signal transduction, and disease resistance in plants. Cell walls are made of cellulose, hemicelluloses, and pectins. Xyloglucan (XG), the principal load-bearing hemicellulose of dicotyledonous plants, has a terminal fucosyl residue. This fucosyltransferase adds this residue.
DUF2101	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2101). This domain, found in various hypothetical archaeal proteins, has no known function.
Tryp_alpha_amyl	Protease inhibitor/seed storage/LTP family. This family is composed of trypsin-alpha amylase inhibitors, seed storage proteins and lipid transfer proteins from plants.
CsgE	Curli assembly protein CsgE. Curli are a class highly aggregated surface fibres that are part of a complex extracellular matrix. They promote biofilm formation in addition to other activities. CsgE is a non-structural protein involved in curli biogenesis. CsgE forms an outer membrane complex with the curli assembly proteins CsgG and CsgF.
Ribosomal_L22e	Ribosomal L22e protein family. 
IclR	Bacterial transcriptional regulator. This family of bacterial transcriptional regulators includes the glycerol operon regulatory protein and acetate operon repressor both of which are members of the iclR family. These proteins have a Helix-Turn-Helix motif at the N-terminus. However this family covers the C-terminal region that may bind to the regulatory substrate (unpublished observation, Bateman A.).
MAPEG	MAPEG family. This family is has been called MAPEG (Membrane Associated Proteins in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism). It includes proteins such as Prostaglandin E synthase. This enzyme catalyses the synthesis of PGE2 from PGH2 (produced by cyclooxygenase from arachidonic acid). Because of structural similarities in the active sites of FLAP, LTC4 synthase and PGE synthase, substrates for each enzyme can compete with one another and modulate synthetic activity.
zf-LITAF-like	LITAF-like zinc finger domain. Members of this family are usually short proteins (<300 residues) with the motif C-XX-C- separated from a more C-terminal cysteine-rich motif HX-C(P)X-C-X4-G-R by a variable region of usually 25-30 (hydrophobic) residues. This domain was first identified in LPS-induced tumour necrosis alpha factor (LITAF) which is produced in mammalian cells after being challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). This particular cysteine-rich signature has also been found to be characteristic of intracellular Zn2+-binding domains suggesting a role in the regulation of gene transcription. The hydrophobic region probably inserts into the membrane rather than traversing it. Such an insertion brings together the N- and C-terminal C-XX-C motifs to form a compact Zn2+-binding structure.
zf-CDGSH	Iron-binding zinc finger CDGSH type. The CDGSH-type zinc finger domain binds iron rather than zinc as a redox-active pH-labile 2Fe-2S cluster. The conserved sequence C-X-C-X2-(S/T)-X3-P-X-C-D-G-(S/A/T)-H is a defining feature of this family. The domain is oriented towards the cytoplasm and is tethered to the mitochondrial membrane by a more N-terminal domain found in higher vertebrates, MitoNEET_N, pfam10660. The domain forms a uniquely folded homo-dimer and spans the outer mitochondrial membrane, orienting the iron-binding residues towards the cytoplasm.
SPO22	Meiosis protein SPO22/ZIP4 like. SPO22/ZIP4 in yeast is a meiosis specific protein involved in sporulation. It has been shown to regulate crossover distribution by promoting synaptonemal complex formation.
DUF898	Bacterial protein of unknown function (DUF898). This family consists of several bacterial proteins of unknown function. Some of the family members are described as putative membrane proteins.
Lycopene_cycl	Lycopene cyclase protein. This family consists of lycopene beta and epsilon cyclase proteins. Carotenoids with cyclic end groups are essential components of the photosynthetic membranes in all plants, algae, and cyanobacteria. These lipid-soluble compounds protect against photo-oxidation, harvest light for photosynthesis, and dissipate excess light energy absorbed by the antenna pigments. The cyclisation of lycopene (psi, psi-carotene) is a key branch point in the pathway of carotenoid biosynthesis. Two types of cyclic end groups are found in higher plant carotenoids: the beta and epsilon rings. Carotenoids with two beta rings are ubiquitous, and those with one beta and one epsilon ring are common; however, carotenoids with two epsilon rings are rare.
UreF	UreF. This family consists of the Urease accessory protein UreF. The urease enzyme (urea amidohydrolase) hydrolyses urea into ammonia and carbamic acid. UreF is proposed to modulate the activation process of urease by eliminating the binding of nickel irons to noncarbamylated protein.
DUF485	Protein of unknown function, DUF485. This family includes several putative integral membrane proteins.
EMG1	EMG1/NEP1 methyltransferase. Members of this family are essential for 40S ribosomal biogenesis. The structure of EMG1 has revealed that it is a novel member of the superfamily of alpha/beta knot fold methyltransferases.
DUF2172	Uncharacterized bacterial protein with aminopeptidase-like domain (DUF2172). This domain, found in various hypothetical prokaryotic proteins, has no known function. An aminopeptidase domain is conserved within the family, but its relevance has not been established yet.
DUF55	Protein of unknown function DUF55. This family of proteins have no known function.
BolA	BolA-like protein. This family consist of the morphoprotein BolA from Escherichia coli and its various homologues. In Escherichia coli over expression of this protein causes round morphology and may be involved in switching the cell between elongation and septation systems during cell division. The expression of BolA is growth rate regulated and is induced during the transition into the the stationary phase. BolA is also induced by stress during early stages of growth and may have a general role in stress response. It has also been suggested that BolA can induce the transcription of penicillin binding proteins 6 and 5.
Beta_elim_lyase	Beta-eliminating lyase. 
Alpha-amylase_C	Alpha amylase, C-terminal all-beta domain. Alpha amylase is classified as family 13 of the glycosyl hydrolases. The structure is an 8 stranded alpha/beta barrel containing the active site, interrupted by a ~70 a.a. calcium-binding domain protruding between beta strand 3 and alpha helix 3, and a carboxyl-terminal Greek key beta-barrel domain.
PEPCK	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase. Catalyses the formation of phosphoenolpyruvate by decarboxylation of oxaloacetate.
RNA_pol_Rpb2_6	RNA polymerase Rpb2, domain 6. RNA polymerases catalyse the DNA dependent polymerisation of RNA. Prokaryotes contain a single RNA polymerase compared to three in eukaryotes (not including mitochondrial. and chloroplast polymerases). This domain represents the hybrid binding domain and the wall domain. The hybrid binding domain binds the nascent RNA strand / template DNA strand in the Pol II transcription elongation complex. This domain contains the important structural motifs, switch 3 and the flap loop and binds an active site metal ion. This domain is also involved in binding to Rpb1 and Rpb3. Many of the bacterial members contain large insertions within this domain, as region known as dispensable region 2 (DRII).
DUF2428	Putative death-receptor fusion protein (DUF2428). This is a family of proteins conserved from plants to humans. The function is not known. Several members have been annotated as being HEAT repeat-containing proteins while others are designated as death-receptor interacting proteins, but neither of these could be confirmed.
DUF1343	Protein of unknown function (DUF1343). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 400 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
LytTR	LytTr DNA-binding domain. This domain is found in a variety of bacterial transcriptional regulators. The domain binds to a specific DNA sequence pattern (see).
DUF2232	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2232). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
Herpes_env	Herpesvirus putative major envelope glycoprotein. This family consists of probable major envelope glycoproteins from members of the herpesviridae including herpes simplex virus, human cytomegalovirus and varicella-zoster virus. Members of the herpesviridae have a dsDNA genome and do not have a RNA stage during there replication.
DUF45	Protein of unknown function DUF45. This protein has no known function. Members are found in some archaebacteria, as well as Helicobacter pylori. The proteins are 190-240 amino acids long, with the C terminus being the most conserved region, containing three conserved histidines. This motif is similar to that found in Zinc proteases, suggesting that this family may also be proteases.
ATP_bind_1	Conserved hypothetical ATP binding protein. Members of this family are found in a range of archaea and eukaryotes and have hypothesised ATP binding activity.
RRM_2	RNA recognition motif 2. 
LMBR1	LMBR1-like membrane protein. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins that are around 500 residues in length. LMBR1 is not involved in preaxial polydactyly, as originally thought. Vertebrate members of this family may play a role in limb development. A member of this family has been shown to be a lipocalin membrane receptor
Transaldolase	Transaldolase. 
Cyclin	Cyclin. This family includes many different cyclin proteins. Members include the G1/S-specific cyclin pas1, and the phosphate system cyclin PHO80/PHO85.
Nuf2	Nuf2 family. Members of this family are components of the mitotic spindle. It has been shown that Nuf2 from yeast is part of a complex called the Ndc80p complex. This complex is thought to bind to the microtubules of the spindle. An arabidopsis protein has been included in this family that has previously not been identified as a member of this family. The match is not strong, but in common with other members of this family contains coiled-coil to the C terminus of this region.
UPF0118	Domain of unknown function DUF20. This transmembrane region is found in putative permeases and predicted transmembrane proteins it has no known function. It is not clear what source suggested that these proteins may be permeases and this information should be treated with caution.
L_HGMIC_fpl	Lipoma HMGIC fusion partner-like protein. This is a group of proteins expressed from a series of genes referred to as Lipoma HGMIC fusion partner-like. The proteins carry four highly conserved transmembrane domains in this entry. In certain instances, eg in LHFPL5, mutations cause deafness in humans and hypospadias, and LHFPL1 is transcribed in six liver tumour cell lines.
Rick_17kDa_Anti	Rickettsia 17 kDa surface antigen. This family consists of several Rickettsia genus specific 17 kDa surface antigen proteins.
Peptidase_C13	Peptidase C13 family. Members of this family are asparaginyl peptidases. The blood fluke parasite Schistosoma mansoni has at least five Clan CA cysteine peptidases in its digestive tract including cathepsins B (2 isoforms), C, F and L. All have been recombinantly expressed as active enzymes, albeit in various stages of activation. In addition, a Clan CD peptidase, termed asparaginyl endopeptidase or 'legumain' has been identified. This has formerly been characterised as a 'haemoglobinase', but this term is probably incorrect. Two cDNAs have been described for Schistosoma mansoni legumain; one encodes an active enzyme whereas the active site cysteine residue encoded by the second cDNA is substituted by an asparagine residue. Both forms have been recombinantly expressed.
DUF2253	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2253). Members of this family of bacterial proteins comprise various hypothetical and putative membrane proteins. Their exact function, has not, as yet, been defined.
CDC27	DNA polymerase subunit Cdc27. This protein forms the C subunit of DNA polymerase delta. It carries the essential residues for binding to the Pol1 subunit of polymerase alpha, from residues 293-332, which are characterised by the motif D-G-VT, referred to as the DPIM motif. The first 160 residues of the protein form the minimal domain for binding to the B subunit, Cdc1, of polymerase delta, the final 10 C-terminal residues, 362-372, being the DNA sliding clamp, PCNA, binding motif.
Glyco_transf_8	Glycosyl transferase family 8. This family includes enzymes that transfer sugar residues to donor molecules. Members of this family are involved in lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis and glycogen synthesis. This family includes Lipopolysaccharide galactosyltransferase, lipopolysaccharide glucosyltransferase 1, and glycogenin glucosyltransferase.
MAGE	MAGE family. The MAGE (melanoma antigen-encoding gene) family are expressed in a wide variety of tumours but not in normal cells, with the exception of the male germ cells, placenta, and, possibly, cells of the developing embryo. The cellular function of this family is unknown. This family also contains the yeast protein, Nse3. The Nse3 protein is part of the Smc5-6 complex. Nse3 has been demonstrated to be important for meiosis.
RE_AlwI	AlwI restriction endonuclease. This family includes the AlwI (recognises GGATC), Bsp6I (recognises GC^NGC), BstNBI (recognises GASTC), PleI(recognises GAGTC) and MlyI (recognises GAGTC) restriction endonucleases.
EF_assoc_2	EF hand associated. This region predominantly appears near EF-hands (pfam00036) in GTP-binding proteins. It is found in all three eukaryotic kingdoms.
RE_HindIII	HindIII restriction endonuclease. This family includes the HindIII (recognises and cleaves A^AGCTT) restriction endonuclease.
CCP_MauG	Di-haem cytochrome c peroxidase. This is a family of distinct cytochrome c peroxidases (CCPs) that contain two haem groups. Similar to other cytochrome c peroxidases, they reduce hydrogen peroxide to water using c-type haem as an oxidisable substrate. However, since they possess two, instead of one, haem prosthetic groups, bacterial CCPs reduce hydrogen peroxide without the need to generate semi-stable free radicals. The two haem groups have significantly different redox potentials. The high potential (+320 mV) haem feeds electrons from electron shuttle proteins to the low potential (-330 mV) haem, where peroxide is reduced (indeed, the low potential site is known as the peroxidatic site). The CCP protein itself is structured into two domains, each containing one c-type haem group, with a calcium-binding site at the domain interface. This family also includes MauG proteins, whose similarity to di-haem CCP was previously recognised.
DUF917	Protein of unknown function (DUF917). This family consists of hypothetical bacterial and archaeal proteins of unknown function.
Misat_Myo_SegII	Misato Segment II myosin-like domain. The misato protein contains three distinct, conserved domains, segments I, II and III. Segments I and III are common to Tubulins pfam00091, but segment II aligns with myosin heavy chain sequences from D. melanogaster (PIR C35815), rabbit (SP P04460), and human (PIR S12458). Segment II of misato is a major contributor to its greater length compared with the various tubulins. The most significant sequence similarities to this 54-amino acid region are from a motif found in the heavy chains of myosins from different organisms. A comparison of segment II with the vertebrate myosin heavy chains reveals that it is homologous to a myosin peptide in the hinge region linking the S2 and LMM domains. Segment II also contains heptad repeats which are characteristic of the myosin tail alpha-helical coiled-coils.
Lin0512_fam	Conserved hypothetical protein (Lin0512_fam). This family consists of few members, broadly distributed. It occurs so far in several Firmicutes (twice in Oceanobacillus), one Cyanobacterium, one alpha Proteobacterium, and (with a long prefix) in plants. The function is unknown. The alignment includes a well conserved motif GxGxDxHG near the N-terminus.
Flavi_NS2A	Flavivirus non-structural protein NS2A. NS2A is a hydrophobic protein about 25 kDa is size. NS2A is cleaved from NS1 by a membrane bound host protease. NS2A has been found to associate with the dsRNA within the vesicle packages. It has also been found that NS2A associates with the known replicase components and so NS2A has been postulated to be part of this replicase complex.
NikM	Nickel uptake substrate-specific transmembrane region. This family of proteins forms part of the nickel-transport complex in prokaryotes, NikMNQO. CbiMNQO (cobalt-transport) and NikMNQO are the most widespread groups of microbial transporters for nickel and cobalt ions and are unusual uptake systems as they consist of eg two transmembrane components (NikM and NikQ), a small membrane-bound component (NikN) and an ATP-binding protein (NikO) but no extra-cytoplasmic solute-binding protein. Similar components constitute the cobalt transporters with some variability in the small membrane-bound component, CbiN, which is not similar to NikN or NikL at the sequence level. NikM is the substrate-specific component of the complex and is a seven-transmembrane protein. The CbiMNQO and NikMNQO systems form part of the coenzyme B12 biosynthesis pathway. The CbiM protein is pfam01891.
Na_H_Exchanger	Sodium/hydrogen exchanger family. Na/H antiporters are key transporters in maintaining the pH of actively metabolising cells. The molecular mechanisms of antiport are unclear. These antiporters contain 10-12 transmembrane regions (M) at the amino-terminus and a large cytoplasmic region at the carboxyl terminus. The transmembrane regions M3-M12 share identity with other members of the family. The M6 and M7 regions are highly conserved. Thus, this is thought to be the region that is involved in the transport of sodium and hydrogen ions. The cytoplasmic region has little similarity throughout the family.
PalI	pH-response regulator, PalI / Rim9. PalI is part of a pH signal transduction cascade. Based on the similarity of PalI to the yeast Rim9 meiotic signal transduction component it has been suggested that PalI might be a membrane sensor for ambient pH.
DUF411	Protein of unknown function, DUF. The function of the members of this bacterial protein family is unknown. Some members may be involved in conferring cation resistance.
DUF1499	Protein of unknown function (DUF1499). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial and plant proteins of around 125 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
DUF2049	Protein of unknown function (DUF2049). This entry is of a family of conserved proteins of approximately 500 residues with alternating regions of conservation and low-complexity. The function is unknown.
YjcQ	YjcQ protein. YjcQ is a protein of approx. 100 residues containing four alpha helices and three beta strands. It is expressed in bacteria and also in viruses. It appears to be under the regulation of SigD RNA polymerase which is responsible for the expression of many genes encoding cell-surface proteins related to flagellar assembly, motility, chemotaxis and autolysis in the late exponential growth phase. The exact function of YjcQ is unknown. However, it is thought to be a prophage head protein in viruses.
IF-2B	Initiation factor 2 subunit family. This family includes initiation factor 2B alpha, beta and delta subunits from eukaryotes, initiation factor 2B subunits 1 and 2 from archaebacteria and some proteins of unknown function from prokaryotes. Initiation factor 2 binds to Met-tRNA, GTP and the small ribosomal subunit. Members of this family have also been characterised as 5-methylthioribose- 1-phosphate isomerases, an enzyme of the methionine salvage pathway. The crystal structure of Ypr118w, a non-essential, low-copy number gene product from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, reveals a dimeric protein with two domains and a putative active site cleft.
PLAT	PLAT/LH2 domain. This domain is found in a variety of membrane or lipid associated proteins. It is called the PLAT (Polycystin-1, Lipoxygenase, Alpha-Toxin) domain or LH2 (Lipoxygenase homology) domain. The known structure of pancreatic lipase shows this domain binds to procolipase pfam01114, which mediates membrane association. So it appears possible that this domain mediates membrane attachment via other protein binding partners. The structure of this domain is known for many members of the family and is composed of a beta sandwich.
Herpes_ORF63	Tegument protein. Herpesvirus virions share a characteristic architecture in which the double-stranded DNA genome is surrounded by an icosahedral protein capsid, a thick tegument layer, and a lipid bilayer envelope. This large tegument protein is found in a variety of herpesviruses.
RNA_pol_A_CTD	Bacterial RNA polymerase, alpha chain C terminal domain. The alpha subunit of RNA polymerase consists of two independently folded domains, referred to as amino-terminal and carboxyl terminal domains. The amino terminal domain is involved in the interaction with the other subunits of the RNA polymerase. The carboxyl-terminal domain interacts with the DNA and activators. The amino acid sequence of the alpha subunit is conserved in prokaryotic and chloroplast RNA polymerases. There are three regions of particularly strong conservation, two in the amino-terminal and one in the carboxyl- terminal.
DUF2036	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2036). This family of proteins includes members ranging in size from approximately 300 to 460 residues. There are a number of well-conserved domains along the length.
Mesd	Chaperone for wingless signalling and trafficking of LDL receptor. Mesd is a family of highly conserved proteins found from nematodes to humans. The final C-terminal residues, KEDL, are the endoplasmic reticulum retention sequence as it is an ER protein specifically required for the intracellular trafficking of members of the low-density lipoprotein family of receptors (LDLRs). The N- and C-terminal sequences are predicted to adopt a random coil conformation, with the exception of an isolated predicted helix within the N-terminal region, The central folded domain flanked by natively unstructured regions is the necessary structure for facilitating maturation of LRP6 (Low-Density Lipoprotein Receptor-Related Protein 6 Maturation).
TniB	Bacterial TniB protein. This family consists of several bacterial TniB NTP-binding proteins. TniB is a probable ATP-binding protein which is involved in Tn5053 mercury resistance transposition.
Ribosomal_L31e	Ribosomal protein L31e. 
tRNA-synt_1g	tRNA synthetases class I (M). This family includes methionyl tRNA synthetases.
DPPF	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DPPF). This is a protein of approximately 200 residues which is conserved from plants to humans. It contains a highly conserved QFW motif close to the N-terminus and a DPPF motif in the centre. Its function is unknown.
DUF856	Caenorhabditis elegans protein of unknown function (DUF856). This family consists of several Caenorhabditis elegans specific proteins of unknown function.
MadL	Malonate transporter MadL subunit. 
NusB	NusB family. The NusB protein is involved in the regulation of rRNA biosynthesis by transcriptional antitermination.
CHZ	Histone chaperone domain CHZ. This domain is highly conserved from yeasts to humans and is part of the chaperone protein HIRIP3 in vertebrates which interacts with the H3.3 chaperone HIRA, implicated in histone replacement during transcription. N- and C- termini of Chz family members are relatively divergent but do contain similar acidic stretches rich in Glu/Asp residues, characteristic of all histone chaperones.
Isy1	Isy1-like splicing family. Isy1 protein is important in the optimisation of splicing.
NDUFA12	NADH ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit NDUFA12. This family contains the 17.2 kD subunit of complex I (NDUFA12) and its homologues. The family also contains a second related eukaryotic protein of unknown function.
FATC	FATC domain. The FATC domain is named after FRAP, ATM, TRRAP C-terminal. The solution structure of the FATC domain suggests it plays a role in redox-dependent structural and cellular stability.
Cactin_mid	Conserved mid region of cactin. This is the conserved middle region of a family of proteins referred to as cactins. The region contains two of three predicted coiled-coil domains. Most members of this family have a CactinC_cactus pfam09732 domain at the C-terminal end. Upstream of Mid_cactin in Drosophila members are a serine-rich region, some non-typical RD motifs and three predicted bipartite nuclear localisation signals, none of which are well-conserved. Cactin associates with IkappaB-cactus as one of the intracellular members of the Rel (NF-kappaB) pathway which is conserved in invertebrates and vertebrates. In mammals, this pathway controls the activities of the immune and inflammatory response genes as well as viral genes, and is critical for cell growth and survival. In Drosophila, the Rel pathway functions in the innate cellular and humoral immune response, in muscle development, and in the establishment of dorsal-ventral polarity in the early embryo.
Peptidase_C4	Peptidase family C4. This peptidase is present in the nuclear inclusion protein of potyviruses.
FPL	Uncharacterised conserved protein. This entry represents an N-terminal region of approximately 150 residues of a family of proteins of unknown function. It contains a highly conserved FPL motif.
Gal-3-0_sulfotr	Galactose-3-O-sulfotransferase. This family consists of several mammalian galactose-3-O-sulfotransferase proteins. Gal-3-O-sulfotransferase is thought to play a critical role in 3'-sulfation of N-acetyllactosamine in both O- and N-glycans.
B2-adapt-app_C	Beta2-adaptin appendage, C-terminal sub-domain. Members of this family adopt a structure consisting of a 5 stranded beta-sheet, flanked by one alpha helix on the outer side, and by two alpha helices on the inner side. This domain is required for binding to clathrin, and its subsequent polymerisation. Furthermore, a hydrophobic patch present in the domain also binds to a subset of D-phi-F/W motif-containing proteins that are bound by the alpha-adaptin appendage domain (epsin, AP180, eps15).
XK-related	XK-related protein. Members of this family comprise various XK-related proteins, that are involved in sodium-dependent transport of neutral amino acids or oligopeptides. These proteins are responsible for the Kx blood group system - defects results in McLeod syndrome [OMIM: 314850], an X-linked multi-system disorder characterised by late onset abnormalities in the neuromuscular and hematopoietic systems.
Stathmin	Stathmin family. The Stathmin family of proteins play an important role in the regulation of the microtubule cytoskeleton. They regulate microtubule dynamics by promoting depolymerization of microtubules and/or preventing polymerisation of tubulin heterodimers.
Chitin_bind_1	Chitin recognition protein. 
APG6	Autophagy protein Apg6. In yeast, 15 Apg proteins coordinate the formation of autophagosomes. Autophagy is a bulk degradation process induced by starvation in eukaryotic cells. Apg6/Vps30p has two distinct functions in the autophagic process, either associated with the membrane or in a retrieval step of the carboxypeptidase Y sorting pathway.
AA_kinase	Amino acid kinase family. This family includes kinases that phosphorylate a variety of amino acid substrates, as well as uridylate kinase and carbamate kinase. This family includes: Aspartokinase EC:2.7.2.4. Acetylglutamate kinase EC:2.7.2.8. Glutamate 5-kinase EC:2.7.2.11. Uridylate kinase EC:2.7.4.-. Carbamate kinase EC:2.7.2.2.
dNK	Deoxynucleoside kinase. This family consists of various deoxynucleoside kinases cytidine EC:2.7.1.74, guanosine EC:2.7.1.113, adenosine EC:2.7.1.76 and thymidine kinase EC:2.7.1.21 (which also phosphorylates deoxyuridine and deoxycytosine.) These enzymes catalyse the production of deoxynucleotide 5'-monophosphate from a deoxynucleoside. Using ATP and yielding ADP in the process.
TFIIA	Transcription factor IIA, alpha/beta subunit. Transcription initiation factor IIA (TFIIA) is a heterotrimer, the three subunits being known as alpha, beta, and gamma, in order of molecular weight. The N and C-terminal domains of the gamma subunit are represented in pfam02268 and pfam02751, respectively. This family represents the precursor that yields both the alpha and beta subunits. The TFIIA heterotrimer is an essential general transcription initiation factor for the expression of genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. Together with TFIID, TFIIA binds to the promoter region; this is the first step in the formation of a pre-initiation complex (PIC). Binding of the rest of the transcription machinery follows this step. After initiation, the PIC does not completely dissociate from the promoter. Some components, including TFIIA, remain attached and re-initiate a subsequent round of transcription.
DUF1311	Protein of unknown function (DUF1311). This family consists of several bacterial proteins of around 120 residues in length. Members of this family contain four highly conserved cysteine residues. The function of this family is unknown.
Tellurium_res	Tellurium resistance protein. Members of this family confer resistance to the metalloid element tellurium and its salts.
DEAD	DEAD/DEAH box helicase. Members of this family include the DEAD and DEAH box helicases. Helicases are involved in unwinding nucleic acids. The DEAD box helicases are involved in various aspects of RNA metabolism, including nuclear transcription, pre mRNA splicing, ribosome biogenesis, nucleocytoplasmic transport, translation, RNA decay and organellar gene expression.
HrpB4	Bacterial type III secretion protein (HrpB4). This entry represents proteins encoded by genes which are found in type III secretion operons in a narrow range of species including Xanthomonas, Burkholderia and Ralstonia.
DUF1605	Domain of unknown function (DUF1605). This family is found towards the C-terminus of the DEAD-box helicases (pfam00270). In these helicases it apparently always found in association with pfam04408. There do seem to be a couple of instances where it occurs by itself.
SPOUT_MTase	Predicted SPOUT methyltransferase. This family of proteins are predicted to be SPOUT methyltransferases.
HD-ZIP_N	HD-ZIP protein N terminus. This family consists of the N termini of plant homeobox-leucine zipper proteins. Its function is unknown.
Skp1	Skp1 family, dimerisation domain. 
DUF794	Arabidopsis thaliana protein of unknown function (DUF794). This family consists of several proteins of unknown function from Arabidopsis thaliana.
Cenp-B_dimeris	Centromere protein B dimerisation domain. The centromere protein B (CENP-B) dimerisation domain is composed of two alpha-helices, which are folded into an antiparallel configuration. Dimerisation of CENP-B is mediated by this domain, in which monomers dimerise to form a symmetrical, antiparallel, four-helix bundle structure with a large hydrophobic patch in which 23 residues of one monomer form van der Waals contacts with the other monomer. This CENP-B dimer configuration may be suitable for capturing two distant CENP-B boxes during centromeric heterochromatin formation.
Herpes_LAMP2	Herpesvirus Latent membrane protein 2. Family of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (HHV8) latent membrane protein.
Sec34	Sec34-like family. Sec34 and Sec35 form a sub-complex, in a seven protein complex that includes Dor1 (pfam04124). This complex is thought to be important for tether vesicles to the Golgi.
Dymeclin	Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome protein. Dymeclin (Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome protein) contains a large number of leucine and isoleucine residues and a total of 17 repeated dileucine motifs. It is characteristically about 700 residues long and present in plants and animals. Mutations in the gene coding for this protein in humans give rise to the disorder Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome (DMC, MIM 223800) which is an autosomal-recessive disorder characterised by the association of a spondylo-epi-metaphyseal dysplasia and mental retardation.
DUF23	Domain of unknown function. This family consists of an approximately 300 residue long region found in Caenorhabditis elegans and drosophila proteins, the function of this region is unknown. The aligned region contains several conserved cysteine residues and several charged residues that may be catalytic residues.
Ribosomal_S19e	Ribosomal protein S19e. 
DP	Transcription factor DP. DP forms a heterodimer with E2F and regulates genes involved in cell cycle progression. The transcriptional activity of E2F is inhibited by the retinoblastoma protein which binds to the E2F-DP heterodimer and negatively regulates the G1-S transition.
Arabinose_trans	Mycobacterial cell wall arabinan synthesis protein. Arabinosyltransferase is involved in arabinogalactan (AG) biosynthesis pathway in mycobacteria. AG is a component of the macromolecular assembly of the mycolyl-AG-peptidoglycan complex of the cell wall. This enzyme has important clinical applications as it is believed to be the target of the antimycobacterial drug Ethambutol.
Ribosomal_L32p	Ribosomal L32p protein family. 
IF4E	Eukaryotic initiation factor 4E. 
HGWP	HGWP repeat. This short (30 amino acids) repeat is found in a number of plant proteins. It contains a conserved HGWP motif, hence its name. The function of these proteins is unknown.
7tm_3	7 transmembrane sweet-taste receptor of 3 GCPR. This is a domain of seven transmembrane regions that forms the C-terminus of some subclass 3 G-coupled-protein receptors. It is often associated with a downstream cysteine-rich linker domain, NCD3G pfam07562, which is the human sweet-taste receptor, and the N-terminal domain, ANF_receptor pfam01094. The seven TM regions assemble in such a way as to produce a docking pocket into which such molecules as cyclamate and lactisole have been found to bind and consequently confer the taste of sweetness.
HisKA_3	Histidine kinase. This is the dimerisation and phosphoacceptor domain of a sub-family of histidine kinases. It shares sequence similarity with pfam00512 and pfam07536.
SgaT_UlaA	Putative sugar-specific permease, SgaT/UlaA. This family consists of bacterial transmembrane proteins with a putative sugar-specific permease function, analogous to the IIC component of the PTS system (pfam02378). It has been suggested that this permease may form part of an L-ascorbate utilisation pathway, with proposed specificity for 3-keto-L-gulonate (formed by hydrolysis of L-ascorbate).
XS	XS domain. The XS (rice gene X and SGS3) domain is found in a family of plant proteins including gene X and SGS3. SGS3 is thought to be involved in post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS). This domain contains a conserved aspartate residue that may be functionally important.
ATP-synt_10	ATP10 protein. ATP 10 is essential for the assembly of a functional mitochondrial ATPase complex.
DUF1906	Domain of unknown function (DUF1906). This domain is found in a set of uncharacterised hypothetical bacterial proteins.
PTPLA	Protein tyrosine phosphatase-like protein, PTPLA. This family includes the mammalian protein tyrosine phosphatase-like protein, PTPLA. A significant variation of PTPLA from other protein tyrosine phosphatases is the presence of proline instead of catalytic arginine at the active site. It is thought that PTPLA proteins have a role in the development, differentiation, and maintenance of a number of tissue types.
TRAP_beta	Translocon-associated protein beta (TRAPB). This family consists of several eukaryotic translocon-associated protein beta (TRAPB) or signal sequence receptor beta subunit (SSR-beta) proteins. The normal translocation of nascent polypeptides into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is thought to be aided in part by a translocon-associated protein (TRAP) complex consisting of 4 protein subunits. The association of mature proteins with the ER and Golgi, or other intracellular locales, such as lysosomes, depends on the initial targeting of the nascent polypeptide to the ER membrane. A similar scenario must also exist for proteins destined for secretion.
Esterase_phd	Esterase PHB depolymerase. This family of proteins include acetyl xylan esterases (AXE), feruloyl esterases (FAE), and poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) depolymerases.
DUF2499	Protein of unknown function (DUF2499). Members of this family are found in plants, lower eukaryotes, and bacteria and the chloroplast where it is annotated as Ycf49 or Ycf49-like. The function is not known though several members are annotated as putative membrane proteins.
CactinC_cactus	Cactus-binding C-terminus of cactin protein. CactinC_cactus is the C-terminal 200 residues of the cactin protein which are necessary for the association of cactin with IkappaB-cactus as one of the intracellular members of the Rel complex. The Rel (NF-kappaB) pathway is conserved in invertebrates and vertebrates. In mammals, it controls the activities of the immune and inflammatory response genes as well as viral genes, and is critical for cell growth and survival. In Drosophila, the Rel pathway functions in the innate cellular and humoral immune response, in muscle development, and in the establishment of dorsal-ventral polarity in the early embryo. Most members of the family also have a Cactin_mid domain pfam10312 further upstream.
Cohesin_load	Cohesin loading factor. Cohesin_load is a common cohesin loading factor protein that is conserved in fungi. It is associated with the cohesin complex and is required in G1 for cohesin binding to chromosomes but dispensable in G2 when cohesion has been established. It is referred to as both Ssl3, in pombe, and Scc4, in S.cerevisiae. It complexes with Mis4.
WW	WW domain. The WW domain is a protein module with two highly conserved tryptophans that binds proline-rich peptide motifs in vitro.
Evr1_Alr	Erv1 / Alr family. Biogenesis of Fe/S clusters involves a number of essential mitochondrial proteins. Erv1p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondria is required for the maturation of Fe/S proteins in the cytosol. The ALR (augmenter of liver regeneration) represents a mammalian orthologue of yeast Erv1p. Both Erv1p and full-length ALR are located in the mitochondrial intermembrane an d it thought to operate downstream of the mitochondrial ABC transporter.
Keratin_matx	Keratin, high-sulphur matrix protein. Family of Keratin, high-sulfur matrix proteins. The keratin products of mammalian epidermal derivatives such as wool and hair consist of microfibrils embedded in a rigid matrix of other proteins. The matrix proteins include the high-sulphur and high-tyrosine keratins, having molecular weights of 6-20 kDa, whereas microfibrils contain the larger, low-sulphur keratins (40-56 kDa).
UPF0139	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0139). 
Utp8	Utp8 family. Utp8 is an essential component of the nuclear tRNA export machinery in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It is a tRNA binding protein that acts at a step between tRNA maturation /aminoacylation, and translocation of the tRNA across the nuclear pore complex.
SATase_N	Serine acetyltransferase, N-terminal. The N-terminal domain of serine acetyltransferase has a sequence that is conserved in plants and bacteria.
PAS_3	PAS fold. The PAS fold corresponds to the structural domain that has previously been defined as PAS and PAC motifs. The PAS fold appears in archaea, eubacteria and eukarya.
Calmodulin_bind	Calmodulin binding protein-like. The members of this family are putative or actual calmodulin binding proteins expressed by various plant species. Some members (for example), are known to be involved in the induction of plant defence responses. However, their precise function in this regards is as yet unknown.
SKIP_SNW	SKIP/SNW domain. This domain is found in chromatin proteins.
DUF1715	Eukaryotic domain of unknown function (DUF1715). This is a conserved eukaryotic domain of unknown function.
Mo-co_dimer	Mo-co oxidoreductase dimerisation domain. This domain is found in molybdopterin cofactor (Mo-co) oxidoreductases. It is involved in dimer formation, and has an Ig-fold structure.
PetL	Cytochrome B6-F complex subunit VI (PetL). This family consists of several Cytochrome B6-F complex subunit VI (PetL) proteins found in several plant species. PetL is one of the small subunits which make up The cytochrome b(6)f complex. PetL is strictly required neither for the accumulation nor for the function of cytochrome b6f; in its absence, however, the complex becomes unstable in vivo in aging cells and labile in vitro. It has been suggested that the N-terminus of the protein is likely to lie in the thylakoid lumen.
DUF2090	Uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria (DUF2090). This domain, found in various prokaryotic carbohydrate kinases, has no known function.
RE_Eco29kI	Eco29kI restriction endonuclease. This family includes the Eco29kI (recognises and cleaves CCGC^GG ) restriction endonuclease.
DUF245	Putative proteasome component. This family of Actinomycetales proteins includes members that may be involved in the 20S proteasome complex of these bacteria. Their precise function is unknown.
Sterile	Male sterility protein. This family represents the C-terminal region of the male sterility protein in a number of arabidopsis and drosophila. A sequence-related jojoba acyl CoA reductase is also included.
FhuF	Ferric iron reductase protein FhuF. This family consists of several bacterial ferric iron reductase protein (FhuF) sequences. FhuF is involved in the reduction of ferric iron in cytoplasmic ferrioxamine B.
Rabaptin	Rabaptin. 
DUF1145	Protein of unknown function (DUF1145). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of unknown function.
ApbA_C	Ketopantoate reductase PanE/ApbA C terminal. This is a family of 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductases also known as ketopantoate reductases, EC:1.1.1.169. The reaction catalysed by this enzyme is: (R)-pantoate + NADP(+) <=> 2-dehydropantoate + NADPH. AbpA catalyses the NADPH reduction of ketopantoic acid to pantoic acid in the alternative pyrimidine biosynthetic (APB) pathway. ApbA and PanE are allelic. ApbA, the ketopantoate reductase enzyme is required for the synthesis of thiamine via the APB biosynthetic pathway.
Chromate_transp	Chromate transporter. Members of this family probably act as chromate transporters. Members of this family are found in both bacteria and archaebacteria. The proteins are composed of one or two copies of this region. The alignment contains two conserved motifs, FGG and PGP.
Sigma70_ner	Sigma-70, non-essential region. The domain is found in the primary vegetative sigma factor. The function of this domain is unclear and can be removed without loss of function.
HAT	HAT (Half-A-TPR) repeat. The HAT (Half A TPR) repeat is found in several RNA processing proteins.
Acyl-CoA_dh_1	Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, C-terminal domain. C-terminal domain of Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase is an all-alpha, four helical up-and-down bundle.
Occludin_ELL	Occludin homology domain. This domain represents a conserved region approximately 100 residues long within eukaryotic occludin proteins and the RNA polymerase II elongation factor ELL. Occludin is an integral membrane protein that localises to tight junctions, while ELL is an elongation factor that can increase the catalytic rate of RNA polymerase II transcription by suppressing transient pausing by polymerase at multiple sites along the DNA. This shared domain is thought to mediate protein interactions.
CreD	Inner membrane protein CreD. This family consists of several bacterial CreD or Cet inner membrane proteins. Dominant mutations of the cet gene of Escherichia coli result in tolerance to colicin E2 and increased amounts of an inner membrane protein with an Mr of 42,000. The cet gene is shown to be in the same operon as the phoM gene, which is required in a phoR background for expression of the structural gene for alkaline phosphatase, phoA. Although the Cet protein is not required for phoA expression, it has been suggested that the Cet protein has an enhancing effect on the transcription of phoA.
Ribosomal_S7	Ribosomal protein S7p/S5e. This family contains ribosomal protein S7 from prokaryotes and S5 from eukaryotes.
Pyr_redox_2	Pyridine nucleotide-disulphide oxidoreductase. This family includes both class I and class II oxidoreductases and also NADH oxidases and peroxidases. This domain is actually a small NADH binding domain within a larger FAD binding domain.
DUF822	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF822). This family consists of the N terminal regions of several plant proteins of unknown function.
Frataxin_Cyay	Frataxin-like domain. This family contains proteins that have a domain related to the globular C-terminus of Frataxin the protein that is mutated in Friedreich's ataxia. This domain is found in a family of bacterial proteins. The function of this domain is currently unknown.
MFMR	G-box binding protein MFMR. This region is found to the N-terminus of the pfam00170 transcription factor domain. It is between 150 and 200 amino acids in length. The N-terminal half is rather rich in proline residues and has been termed the PRD (proline rich domain), whereas the C-terminal half is more polar and has been called the MFMR (multifunctional mosaic region). It has been suggested that this family is composed of three sub-families called A, B and C, classified according to motif composition. It has been suggested that some of these motifs may be involved in mediating protein-protein interactions. The MFMR region contains a nuclear localisation signal in bZIP opaque and GBF-2. The MFMR also contains a transregulatory activity in TAF-1. The MFMR in CPRF-2 contains cytoplasmic retention signals.
TRAM	TRAM domain. This small domain has no known function. However it may perform a nucleic acid binding role (Bateman A. unpublished observation).
DUF936	Plant protein of unknown function (DUF936). This family consists of several hypothetical proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The function of this family is unknown.
FMN_red	NADPH-dependent FMN reductase. 
PrmA	Ribosomal protein L11 methyltransferase (PrmA). This family consists of several Ribosomal protein L11 methyltransferase (EC:2.1.1.-) sequences.
Matrilin_ccoil	Trimeric coiled-coil oligomerisation domain of matrilin. This short domain is a coiled coil structure and has a single cysteine residue at the start which is likely to form a di-sulfide bridge with a corresponding cysteine in an upstream EGF (pfam00008) domain thereby spanning a VWA (pfam00092) domain. All three domains can be associated together as in the cartilage matrix protein matrilin, where this domain is likely to be responsible for oligomerisation.
DUF318	Predicted permease. This family of integral membrane proteins are predicted to be permeases of unknown specificity.
SpoIIE	Stage II sporulation protein E (SpoIIE). This family contains a number of bacterial stage II sporulation E proteins (EC:3.1.3.16). These are required for formation of a normal polar septum during sporulation. The N-terminal region is hydrophobic and is expected to contain up to 12 membrane-spanning segments.
MMR_HSR1_C	GTPase of unknown function C-terminal. This domain is found at the C-terminus of pfam01926 in archaeal and eukaryotic GTP-binding proteins.
Antimicrobial_5	Bee antimicrobial peptide. This family consists of antimicrobial peptides produced by bees. These peptides have strong antimicrobial and some anti-fungal activity and has homology to abaecin which is the largest proline-rich antimicrobial peptide isolated from European bumblebee Bombus pascuorum.
DUF1561	Protein of unknown function (DUF1561). A family of paralogous proteins in Leptospira interrogans.
PK	Pyruvate kinase, barrel domain. This domain of the is actually a small beta-barrel domain nested within a larger TIM barrel. The active site is found in a cleft between the two domains.
F5_F8_type_C	F5/8 type C domain. This domain is also known as the discoidin (DS) domain family.
Beach	Beige/BEACH domain. 
Methyltransf_8	Hypothetical methyltransferase. This family consists of several uncharacterised eukaryotic proteins which are related to methyltransferases pfam01209.
DUF1981	Domain of unknown function (DUF1981). Members of this family of functionally uncharacterised domains are found in various plant and yeast protein transport proteins.
DHquinase_I	Type I 3-dehydroquinase. Type I 3-dehydroquinase, (3-dehydroquinate dehydratase or DHQase.) Catalyses the cis-dehydration of 3-dehydroquinate via a covalent imine intermediate giving dehydroshikimate. Dehydroquinase functions in the shikimate pathway which is involved in the biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids. Type II 3-dehydroquinase catalyses the trans-dehydration of 3-dehydroshikimate see pfam01220.
Xan_ur_permease	Permease family. This family includes permeases for diverse substrates such as xanthine, uracil and vitamin C. However many members of this family are functionally uncharacterised and may transport other substrates. Members of this family have ten predicted transmembrane helices.
MpPF1	M penetrans paralogue family 1. This family of paralogous proteins identified in Mycoplasma penetrans includes homologues of p35.
DUF502	Protein of unknown function (DUF502). Predicted to be an integral membrane protein.
MoaE	MoaE protein. This family contains the MoaE protein that is involved in biosynthesis of molybdopterin. Molybdopterin, the universal component of the pterin molybdenum cofactors, contains a dithiolene group serving to bind Mo. Addition of the dithiolene sulfurs to a molybdopterin precursor requires the activity of the converting factor. Converting factor contains the MoaE and MoaD proteins.
mRNA_triPase	mRNA capping enzyme, beta chain. The beta chain of mRNA capping enzyme has triphosphatase activity. The function of the capping enzyme also depends on the guanylyltransferase activity conferred by the alpha chain (see pfam01331)
PetG	Cytochrome B6-F complex subunit 5. This family consists of cytochrome B6-F complex subunit 5 (PetG). The cytochrome bf complex found in green plants, eukaryotic algae and cyanobacteria, connects photosystem I to photosystem II in the electron transport chain, functioning as a plastoquinol:plastocyanin/cytochrome c6 oxidoreductase. PetG or subunit 5 is associated with the bf complex and the absence of PetG affects either the assembly or stability of the cytochrome bf complex in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.
Oxidored_q3	NADH-ubiquinone/plastoquinone oxidoreductase chain 6. 
Peptidase_S64	Peptidase family S64. This family of fungal proteins is involved in the processing of membrane bound transcription factor Stp1. The processing causes the signalling domain of Stp1 to be passed to the nucleus where several permease genes are induced. The permeases are important for uptake of amino acids, and processing of tp1 only occurs in an amino acid-rich environment. This family is predicted to be distantly related to the trypsin family (MEROPS:S1) and to have a typical trypsin-like catalytic triad.
LR8	LR8 protein. This family consists of several LR8 like proteins from humans, mice and rats. The function of the human LR8 protein is unknown although it is known to be strongly expressed in the lung fibroblasts.
Malate_synthase	Malate synthase. 
DUF1702	Protein of unknown function (DUF1702). This family of proteins contains many bacterial proteins that are encoded by the UnbL gene. The function of these proteins is unknown.
PHD	PHD-finger. PHD folds into an interleaved type of Zn-finger chelating 2 Zn ions in a similar manner to that of the RING and FYVE domains. Several PHD fingers have been identified as binding modules of methylated histone H3.
EIF4E-T	Nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein for mRNA cap-binding EIF4E. EIF4E-T is the transporter protein for shuttling the mRNA cap-binding protein EIF4E protein, targeting it for nuclear import. EIF4E-T contains several key binding domains including two functional leucine-rich NESs (nuclear export signals) between residues 438-447 and 613-638 in the human protein. The other two binding domains are an EIF4E-binding site, between residues 27-42 in Q9EST3, and a bipartite NLS (nuclear localisation signals) between 194-211, and these lie in family EIF4E-T_N. EIF4E is the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E that is the rate-limiting factor for cap-dependent translation initiation.
DUF2463	Protein of unknown function (DUF2463). This protein is found in eukaryotic, parasitic microsporidia. Its function is unknown.
Ribosomal_L44	Ribosomal protein L44. 
Pox_Ag35	Pox virus Ag35 surface protein. 
Noggin	Noggin. This family consists of the eukaryotic Noggin proteins. Noggin is a glycoprotein that binds bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) selectively and, when added to osteoblasts, it opposes the effects of BMPs. It has been found that noggin arrests the differentiation of stromal cells, preventing cellular maturation.
DUF2361	Uncharacterised conserved protein (DUF2361). This is a region of 120 amino acids that is conserved in a family of proteins found from plants to fungi. The function is not known.
GFA	Glutathione-dependent formaldehyde-activating enzyme. 
RNA_bind	RNA binding domain. This domain corresponds to the RNA binding domain of Poly(A)-specific ribonuclease (PARN).
Lysine_decarbox	Possible lysine decarboxylase. The members of this family share a highly conserved motif PGGXGTXXE that is probably functionally important. This family includes proteins annotated as lysine decarboxylases, although the evidence for this is not clear.
Cyt-b5	Cytochrome b5-like Heme/Steroid binding domain. This family includes heme binding domains from a diverse range of proteins. This family also includes proteins that bind to steroids. The family includes progesterone receptors. Many members of this subfamily are membrane anchored by an N-terminal transmembrane alpha helix. This family also includes a domain in some chitin synthases. There is no known ligand for this domain in the chitin synthases.
DAHP_synth_1	DAHP synthetase I family. Members of this family catalyse the first step in aromatic amino acid biosynthesis from chorismate. E-coli has three related synthetases, which are inhibited by different aromatic amino acids. This family also includes KDSA which has very similar catalytic activity but is involved in the first step of liposaccharide biosynthesis.
BTV_NS2	Bluetongue virus non-structural protein NS2. This family includes NS2 proteins from other members of the Orbivirus genus. NS2 is a non-specific single-stranded RNA-binding protein that forms large homomultimers and accumulates in viral inclusion bodies of infected cells. Three RNA binding regions have been identified in Bluetongue virus serotype 17 at residues 2-11, 153-166 and 274-286. NS2 multimers also possess nucleotidyl phosphatase activity. The precise function of NS2 is not known, but it may be involved in the transport and condensation of viral mRNAs.
FMN_bind	FMN-binding domain. This conserved region includes the FMN-binding site of the NqrC protein as well as the NosR and NirI regulatory proteins.
Rep_3	Initiator Replication protein. This protein is an initiator of plasmid replication. RepB possesses nicking-closing (topoisomerase I) like activity. It is also able to perform a strand transfer reaction on ssDNA that contains its target. This family also includes RepA which is an E.coli protein involved in plasmid replication. The RepA protein binds to DNA repeats that flank the repA gene.
Thyroglobulin_1	Thyroglobulin type-1 repeat. Thyroglobulin type 1 repeats are thought to be involved in the control of proteolytic degradation. The domain usually contains six conserved cysteines. These form three disulphide bridges. Cysteines 1 pairs with 2, 3 with 4 and 5 with 6.
Peptidase_M15_3	Peptidase M15. 
SNF2_assoc	Bacterial SNF2 helicase associated. This domain is found in bacterial proteins of the SWF/SNF/SWI helicase family to the N-terminus of the SNF2 family N-terminal domain (pfam00176) and together with the Helicase conserved C-terminal domain (pfam00271). The function of the domain is not clear.
Myosin_head	Myosin head (motor domain). 
tRNA-synt_1	tRNA synthetases class I (I, L, M and V). Other tRNA synthetase sub-families are too dissimilar to be included.
Utp11	Utp11 protein. This protein is found to be part of a large ribonucleoprotein complex containing the U3 snoRNA. Depletion of the Utp proteins impedes production of the 18S rRNA, indicating that they are part of the active pre-rRNA processing complex. This large RNP complex has been termed the small subunit (SSU) processome.
DAGK_acc	Diacylglycerol kinase accessory domain. Diacylglycerol (DAG) is a second messenger that acts as a protein kinase C activator. This domain is assumed to be an accessory domain: its function is unknown.
Peptidase_C2	Calpain family cysteine protease. 
DUF690	Protein of unknown function (DUF690). This family contains several uncharacterised bacterial membrane proteins.
Complex1_24kDa	Respiratory-chain NADH dehydrogenase 24 Kd subunit. 
Glyco_hydro_19	Chitinase class I. 
DHQS	3-dehydroquinate synthase (EC 4.6.1.3). 3-Dehydroquinate synthase is an enzyme in the common pathway of aromatic amino acid biosynthesis that catalyses the conversion of 3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonic acid 7-phosphate (DAHP) into 3-dehydroquinic acid. This synthesis of aromatic amino acids is an essential metabolic function for most prokaryotic as well as lower eukaryotic cells, including plants. The pathway is absent in humans; therefore, DHQS represents a potential target for the development of novel and selective antimicrobial agents. Owing to the threat posed by the spread of pathogenic bacteria resistant to many currently used antimicrobial drugs, there is clearly a need to develop new anti-infective drugs acting at novel targets. A further potential use for DHQS inhibitors is as herbicides.
tRNA_int_endo	tRNA intron endonuclease, catalytic C-terminal domain. Members of this family cleave pre tRNA at the 5' and 3' splice sites to release the intron EC:3.1.27.9.
But2	Ubiquitin 3 binding protein But2. This family is of proteins conserved in yeasts. It binds to Uba3 and is involved in the NEDD8 signalling pathway.
Ribosomal_L24e	Ribosomal protein L24e. 
DUF1612	Protein of unknown function (DUF1612). This family includes sequences of largely unknown function but which share a number of features in common. They are expressed by bacterial species, and in many cases these bacteria are known to associate symbiotically with plants. Moreover, the majority are coded for by plasmids, which in many cases are known to confer on the organism the ability to interact symbiotically with leguminous plants. An example of such a plasmid is NGR234, which encodes Y4CF, a protein of unknown function that is a member of this family. Other members of this family are expressed by organisms with a documented genomic similarity to plant symbionts.
PEP-utilizers_C	PEP-utilising enzyme, TIM barrel domain. 
Sororin	Sororin protein. Sororin is an essential, cell cycle-dependent mediator of sister chromatid cohesion. The protein is nuclear in interphase cells, dispersed from the chromatin in mitosis, and interacts with the cohesin complex.
LBP_BPI_CETP_C	LBP / BPI / CETP family, C-terminal domain. The N and C terminal domains of the LBP/BPI/CETP family are structurally similar.
DUF1645	Protein of unknown function (DUF1645). These sequences are derived from a number of hypothetical plant proteins. The region in question is approximately 270 amino acids long. Some members of this family are annotated as yeast pheromone receptor proteins AR781 but no literature was found to support this.
MBOAT	MBOAT family. The MBOAT (membrane bound O-acyl transferase) family of membrane proteins contains a variety of acyltransferase enzymes. A conserved histidine has been suggested to be the active site residue.
Peptidase_C78	Peptidase family C78. This family formerly known as DUF1671 has been shown to be a cysteine peptidase called (Ufm1)-specific protease.
PUL	PUL domain. The PUL (PLAP, Ufd3p and Lub1p) domain is a novel alpha-helical Ub-associated domain. It directly binds to Cdc48, a chaperone-like AAA ATPase that collects ubiquitylated substrates.
DUF2489	Protein of unknown function (DUF2489). This is a bacterial family of uncharacterised proteins.
PTPS_related	6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase related domain; membrane protein. This domain is found in various bacterial hypothetical membrane proteins, as well as in tetratricopeptide TPR_2 repeat protein. The exact function of the domain has not, as yet, been established.
Fascin	Fascin domain. This family consists of several eukaryotic fascin or singed proteins. The fascins are a structurally unique and evolutionarily conserved group of actin cross-linking proteins. Fascins function in the organisation of two major forms of actin-based structures: dynamic, cortical cell protrusions and cytoplasmic microfilament bundles. The cortical structures, which include filopodia, spikes, lamellipodial ribs, oocyte microvilli and the dendrites of dendritic cells, have roles in cell-matrix adhesion, cell interactions and cell migration, whereas the cytoplasmic actin bundles appear to participate in cell architecture. Dictyostelium hisactophilin, another actin-binding protein, is a submembranous pH sensor that signals slight changes of the H+ concentration to actin by inducing actin polymerisation and binding to microfilaments only at pH values below seven. Members of this family are histidine rich, typically contain the repeated motif of HHXH.
DSBA	DSBA-like thioredoxin domain. This family contains a diverse set of proteins with a thioredoxin-like structure pfam00085. This family also includes 2-hydroxychromene-2-carboxylate (HCCA) isomerase enzymes catalyse one step in prokaryotic polyaromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) catabolic pathways. This family also contains members with functions other than HCCA isomerisation, such as Kappa family GSTs, whose similarity to HCCA isomerases was not previously recognised. One member from Pseudomonas putida has been annotated as a dioxygenase but is almost certainly an HCCA isomerase enzyme. Similarly, a member from Pseudomonas stutzeri has been annotated as a dehydrogenase, but is most probably also an HCCA isomerase enzyme. In addition, a member from Rhizobium leguminosarum has been annotated as a putative glycerol-3-phosphate transfer protein, but is also most likely to be an HCCA isomerase enzyme.
DUF1264	Protein of unknown function (DUF1264). This family contains a number of bacterial and eukaryotic proteins of unknown function that are approximately 200 residues long. Some family members are annotated as putative lipoproteins.
HORMA	HORMA domain. The HORMA (for Hop1p, Rev7p and MAD2) domain has been suggested to recognise chromatin states that result from DNA adducts, double stranded breaks or non-attachment to the spindle and acts as an adaptor that recruits other proteins. MAD2 is a spindle checkpoint protein which prevents progression of the cell cycle upon detection of a defect in mitotic spindle integrity.
IFRD	Interferon-related developmental regulator (IFRD). Interferon-related developmental regulator (IFRD1) is the human homologue of the rat early response protein PC4 and its murine homologue TIS7. The exact function of IFRD1 is unknown but it has been shown that PC4 is necessary to muscle differentiation and that it might have a role in signal transduction. This family also contains IFRD2 and its murine equivalent SKMc15 which are highly expressed soon after gastrulation and in the hepatic primordium, suggesting an involvement in early hematopoiesis.
Herpes_U26	Human herpesvirus U26 protein. This family consists of several Human herpesvirus U26 proteins of around 300 residues in length. The function of this family is unknown.
CitMHS	Citrate transporter. 
efhand	EF hand. The EF-hands can be divided into two classes: signaling proteins and buffering/transport proteins. The first group is the largest and includes the most well-known members of the family such as calmodulin, troponin C and S100B. These proteins typically undergo a calcium-dependent conformational change which opens a target binding site. The latter group is represented by calbindin D9k and do not undergo calcium dependent conformational changes.
TBCA	Tubulin binding cofactor A. 
Late_protein_L2	Late Protein L2. 
PTS_EIIC	Phosphotransferase system, EIIC. The bacterial phosphoenolpyruvate: sugar phosphotransferase system (PTS) is a multi-protein system involved in the regulation of a variety of metabolic and transcriptional processes. The sugar-specific permease of the PTS consists of three domains (IIA, IIB and IIC). The IIC domain catalyses the transfer of a phosphoryl group from IIB to the sugar substrate.
DUF2347	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2347). Members of this family of hypothetical proteins have no known function.
Syntaxin-18_N	SNARE-complex protein Syntaxin-18 N-terminus. This is the conserved N-terminal of Syntaxin-18. Syntaxin-18 is found in the SNARE complex of the endoplasmic reticulum and functions in the trafficking between the ER intermediate compartment and the cis-Golgi vesicle. In particular, the N-terminal region is important for the formation of ER aggregates. More specifically, syntaxin-18 is involved in endoplasmic reticulum-mediated phagocytosis, presumably by regulating the specific and direct fusion of the ER with the plasma or phagosomal membranes.
CT20	CT20 family. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae member of this family is part of NuA4, the only essential histone acetyltransferase complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae involved in global histone acetylation.
XAP5	XAP5 protein. This protein is found in a wide range of eukaryotes. Its function is uncertain. It is a nuclear protein and is suggested to be DNA binding.
PX	PX domain. PX domains bind to phosphoinositides.
Glt_symporter	Sodium/glutamate symporter. 
Metal_hydrol	Predicted metal-dependent hydrolase. Members of this family of proteins comprise various bacterial transition metal-dependent hydrolases.
PapG_N	PapG carbohydrate binding domain. PapG, the adhesin of the P-pili, is situated at the tip and is only a minor component of the whole pilus structure. A two-domain structure has been postulated for PapG; a carbohydrate binding N-terminus (this domain) and chaperone binding C-terminus. The carbohydrate-binding domain interacts with the receptor glycan.
MAM33	Mitochondrial glycoprotein. This mitochondrial matrix protein family contains members of the MAM33 family which bind to the globular 'heads' of C1Q. It is thought to be involved in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and in nucleus-mitochondrion interactions.
Prog_receptor	Progesterone receptor. 
Ribosomal_S30AE	Sigma 54 modulation protein / S30EA ribosomal protein. This Pfam family contains the sigma-54 modulation protein family and the S30AE family of ribosomal proteins which includes the light- repressed protein (lrtA).
CAP_GLY	CAP-Gly domain. Cytoskeleton-associated proteins (CAPs) are involved in the organisation of microtubules and transportation of vesicles and organelles along the cytoskeletal network. A conserved motif, CAP-Gly, has been identified in a number of CAPs, including CLIP-170 and dynactins. The crystal structure of Caenorhabditis elegans F53F4.3 protein CAP-Gly domain was recently solved. The domain contains three beta-strands. The most conserved sequence, GKNDG, is located in two consecutive sharp turns on the surface, forming the entrance to a groove.
Cupin_5	Cupin superfamily (DUF985). Family of uncharacterised proteins found in bacteria and eukaryotes that belongs to the Cupin superfamily.
DUF368	Domain of unknown function (DUF368). Predicted transmembrane domain of unknown function. Family members have between 6 and 9 predicted transmembrane segments.
Wzy_C	O-Antigen Polymerase. This group of bacterial proteins is involved in the synthesis of O-antigen, a lipopolysaccharide found in the outer membrane in gram-negative bacteria. The enzyme is coded for by the gene wzy which is part of the O-antigen gene cluster.
Nup84_Nup100	Nuclear pore protein 84 / 107. Nup84p forms a complex with five proteins, of which Nup120p, Nup85p, Sec13p, and a Sec13p homologues. This Nup84p complex in conjunction with Sec13-type proteins is required for correct nuclear pore biogenesis.
THF_DHG_CYH_C	Tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/cyclohydrolase, NAD(P)-binding domain. 
TFIIS_M	Transcription factor S-II (TFIIS), central domain. Transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II is regulated by the general elongation factor TFIIS. This factor stimulates RNA polymerase II to transcribe through regions of DNA that promote the formation of stalled ternary complexes. TFIIS is composed of three structural domains, termed I, II, and III. The two C-terminal domains (II and III), this domain and pfam01096 are required for transcription activity.
Agro_virD5	Agrobacterium VirD5 protein. The virD operon in Agrobacterium encodes a site-specific endonuclease, and a number of other poorly characterised products. This family represents the VirD5 protein.
PSI_PsaF	Photosystem I reaction centre subunit III. Photosystem I (PSI) is an integral membrane protein complex that uses light energy to mediate electron transfer from plastocyanin to ferredoxin. Subunit III (or PSI-F) is one of at least 14 different subunits that compose the PSI complex.
Phi_1	Phosphate-induced protein 1 conserved region. Family of conserved plant proteins. Conserved region identified in a phosphate-induced protein of unknown function.
TATA_RF	TATA-binding related factor (TRF). This family of proteins is related to TATA-binding protein (TBP). TBP is a highly conserved RNA polymerase II general transcription factor that binds to the core promoter and initiates assembly of the preinitiation complex. Human TRF has been shown to associate with an RNA polymerase II-SRB complex.
Cwf_Cwc_15	Cwf15/Cwc15 cell cycle control protein. This family represents Cwf15/Cwc15 (from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae respectively) and their homologues. The function of these proteins is unknown, but they form part of the spliceosome and are thus thought to be involved in mRNA splicing.
Sigma70_r4_2	Sigma-70, region 4. Region 4 of sigma-70 like sigma-factors are involved in binding to the -35 promoter element via a helix-turn-helix motif.
GBP_C	Guanylate-binding protein, C-terminal domain. Transcription of the anti-viral guanylate-binding protein (GBP) is induced by interferon-gamma during macrophage induction. This family contains GBP1 and GPB2, both GTPases capable of binding GTP, GDP and GMP.
FUSC	Fusaric acid resistance protein conserved region. This family includes a conserved region found in two proteins associated with fusaric acid resistance from Burkholderia cepacia and Klebsiella oxytoca. The function of this region is unknown.
SURF4	SURF4 family. 
3Beta_HSD	3-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/isomerase family. The enzyme 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/5-ene-4-ene isomerase (3 beta-HSD) catalyses the oxidation and isomerisation of 5-ene-3 beta-hydroxypregnene and 5-ene-hydroxyandrostene steroid precursors into the corresponding 4-ene-ketosteroids necessary for the formation of all classes of steroid hormones.
DUF1546	Protein of unknown function (DUF1546). Associated with pfam02969 in Transcription initiation factor TFIID subunit 6 (TAF6).
DUF2006	Proteins of unknown function (DUF2006). This is a family of proteins, some of which are annotated as being putative lipoproteins. The structure of one of proteins in this family has been shown to adopt a beta-barrel structure.
GpcrRhopsn4	Rhodopsin-like GPCR transmembrane domain. This region of 270 amino acids is the seven transmembrane alpha-helical domains included within five GPCRRHODOPSN4 motifs of a G-protein-coupled-receptor (GPCR) protein, conserved from nematodes to humans. GPCRs are integral membrane receptors whose intracellular actions are mediated by signalling pathways involving G proteins and downstream secondary messengers.
COQ9	COQ9. COQ9 is an enzyme that is required for the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q. It may either catalyse a reaction in the coenzyme Q biosynthetic pathway or have a regulatory role.
ACPS	4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase superfamily. Members of this family transfers the 4'-phosphopantetheine (4'-PP) moiety from coenzyme A (CoA) to the invariant serine of pfam00550. This post-translational modification renders holo-ACP capable of acyl group activation via thioesterification of the cysteamine thiol of 4'-PP. This superfamily consists of two subtypes: The ACPS type and the Sfp type. The structure of the Sfp type is known, which shows the active site accommodates a magnesium ion. The most highly conserved regions of the alignment are involved in binding the magnesium ion.
ETF	Electron transfer flavoprotein domain. This family includes the homologous domain shared between the alpha and beta subunits of the electron transfer flavoprotein.
CheR	CheR methyltransferase, SAM binding domain. CheR proteins are part of the chemotaxis signaling mechanism in bacteria. CheR methylates the chemotaxis receptor at specific glutamate residues. CheR is an S-adenosylmethionine- dependent methyltransferase - the C-terminal domain (this one) binds SAM.
Sporozoite_P67	Sporozoite P67 surface antigen. This family consists of several Theileria P67 surface antigens. A stage specific surface antigen of Theileria parva, p67, is the basis for the development of an anti-sporozoite vaccine for the control of East Coast fever (ECF) in cattle. The antigen has been shown to contain five distinct linear peptide sequences recognised by sporozoite-neutralising murine monoclonal antibodies.
RmlD_sub_bind	RmlD substrate binding domain. L-rhamnose is a saccharide required for the virulence of some bacteria. Its precursor, dTDP-L-rhamnose, is synthesised by four different enzymes the final one of which is RmlD. The RmlD substrate binding domain is responsible for binding a sugar nucleotide.
Secretin_N	Bacterial type II/III secretion system short domain. This is a short, often repeated, domain found in bacterial type II/III secretory system proteins. All previous NolW-like domains fall into this family.
eIF-1a	Translation initiation factor 1A / IF-1. This family includes both the eukaryotic translation factor eIF-1A and the bacterial translation initiation factor IF-1.
Thi4	Thi4 family. This family includes a putative thiamine biosynthetic enzyme.
Inositol_P	Inositol monophosphatase family. 
Nucleoporin2	Nucleoporin autopeptidase. 
4F5	4F5 protein family. Members of this family are short proteins that are rich in aspartate, glutamate, lysine and arginine. Although the function of these proteins is unknown, they are found to be ubiquitously expressed.
SrfB	Virulence factor SrfB. This family includes homologues of SsrAB is a two-component regulatory system encoded within the Salmonella pathogenicity island SPI-2. Among the products of genes activated by SsrAB within epithelial and macrophage cells is SrfB. Homologues are found in several other proteobacteria.
UPF0114	Uncharacterized protein family, UPF0114. 
Herpes_UL51	Herpesvirus UL51 protein. UL51 protein is a virion protein. In pseudorabies virus, UL51 was identified as a component of the capsid. In herpes simplex virus type 1 there is evidence for post-translational modification of UL51.
DUF2260	Uncharacterized conserved protein (DUF2260). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
DUF1470	Protein of unknown function (DUF1470). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial proteins of around 180 residues in length. Members of this family are found in Streptomyces, Rhizobium, Ralstonia, Agrobacterium and Bradyrhizobium species. The function of this family is unknown.
SOG2	RAM signalling pathway protein. SOG2 proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae are involved in cell separation and cytokinesis.
Glyco_hydro_68	Levansucrase/Invertase. This Pfam family consists of the glycosyl hydrolase 68 family, including several bacterial levansucrase enzymes, and invertase from zymomonas.
DUF724	Protein of unknown function (DUF724). This family contains several uncharacterised proteins found in Arabidopsis thaliana and other plants. This region is often found associated with Agenet domains and may contain coiled-coil.
NUC153	NUC153 domain. This small domain is found in a a novel nucleolar family.
MethyltransfD12	D12 class N6 adenine-specific DNA methyltransferase. 
ENOD93	Early nodulin 93 ENOD93 protein. 
Cenp-O	Cenp-O kinetochore centromere component. This protein is a component of the inner kinetochore subcomplex of the centromere involved in chromosome segregation via regulation of the spindle, in both bacteria, fungi and eukaryotes.
Bac_GDH	Bacterial NAD-glutamate dehydrogenase. This family consists of several bacterial proteins which are closely related to NAD-glutamate dehydrogenase found in Streptomyces clavuligerus. Glutamate dehydrogenases (GDHs) are a broadly distributed group of enzymes that catalyse the reversible oxidative deamination of glutamate to ketoglutarate and ammonia.
Baculo_LEF-2	lef-2. The lef-2 gene (for late expression factor 2) from baculovirus is required for expression of late genes. This gene has been shown to be specifically required for expression from the vp39 and polh promoters. LEF-1 is a DNA primase and there is some evidence to suggest that LEF-2 may bind to both DNA and LEF-1.
GMC_oxred_C	GMC oxidoreductase. This domain found associated with pfam00732.
DUF1370	Protein of unknown function (DUF1370). This family consists of several hypothetical eukaryotic proteins of around 200 residues in length. Members of this family seem to be specific to mammals and their function is unknown.
Innexin	Innexin. This family includes the drosophila proteins Ogre and shaking-B, and the Caenorhabditis elegans proteins Unc-7 and Unc-9. Members of this family are integral membrane proteins which are involved in the formation of gap junctions. This family has been named the Innexins.
DUF1749	Protein of unknown function (DUF1749). This is a plant and fungal family of unknown function. This family contains many hypothetical proteins.
Plug_translocon	Plug domain of Sec61p. The Sec61/SecY translocon mediates translocation of proteins across the membrane and integration of membrane proteins into the lipid bilayer. The structure of the translocon revealed a plug domain blocking the pore on the lumenal side.The plug is unlikely to be important for sealing the translocation pore in yeast but it plays a role in stabilising Sec61p during translocon formation. The domain runs from residues 52-74.
PfkB	pfkB family carbohydrate kinase. This family includes a variety of carbohydrate and pyrimidine kinases.
tRNA_U5-meth_tr	tRNA (Uracil-5-)-methyltransferase. This family consists of (Uracil-5-)-methyltransferases EC:2.1.1.35 from bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes. A 5-methyluridine (m(5)U) residue at position 54 is a conserved feature of bacterial and eukaryotic tRNAs. The methylation of U54 is catalysed by the tRNA(m5U54)methyltransferase, which in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is encoded by the nonessential TRM2 gene. It is thought that tRNA modification enzymes might have a role in tRNA maturation not necessarily linked to their known catalytic activity.
Totivirus_coat	Totivirus coat protein. 
SSP160	Special lobe-specific silk protein SSP160. This family consists of several special lobe-specific silk protein SSP160 sequences which appear to be specific to Chironomus (Midge) species.
Rrp15p	Rrp15p. Rrp15p is required for the formation of 60S ribosomal subunits.
RALF	Rapid ALkalinization Factor (RALF). RALF, a 5-kDa ubiquitous polypeptide in plants, arrests root growth and development.
Methyltransf_16	Putative methyltransferase. 
MnhB	Domain related to MnhB subunit of Na+/H+ antiporter. Possible subunit of Na+/H+ antiporter,. Predicted integral membrane protein, usually four transmembrane regions in this domain. Often found in bacterial NADH dehydrogenase subunit.
Hemagglutinin	Hemagglutinin. Hemagglutinin from influenza virus causes membrane fusion of the viral membrane with the host membrane. Fusion occurs after the host cell internalises the virus by endocytosis. The drop of pH causes release of a hydrophobic fusion peptide and a large conformational change leading to membrane fusion.
DUF1012	Protein of unknown function (DUF1012). Family of uncharacterised proteins found in both eukaryotes and bacteria.
FemAB	FemAB family. The femAB operon codes for two nearly identical approximately 50-kDa proteins involved in the formation of the Staphylococcal pentaglycine interpeptide bridge in peptidoglycan. These proteins are also considered as a factor influencing the level of methicillin resistance.
3HCDH_N	3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, NAD binding domain. This family also includes lambda crystallin.
Lpp-LpqN	Probable lipoprotein LpqN. This family is conserved in Mycobacteriaceae and is likely to be a lipoprotein.
DUF1571	Protein of unknown function (DUF1571). A family of paralogous proteins in Rhodopirellula baltica.
DUF26	Domain of unknown function DUF26. This domain has no known function. It is found in serine/threonine kinases, associated with the Eukaryotic protein kinase domain pfam00069. In the 33kDa secretary protein and many other proteins this domain is duplicated. The domain is probably extracellular and contains four conserved cysteines tat probably form two disulphide bridges.
SART-1	SART-1 family. SART-1 is a protein involved in cell cycle arrest and pre-mRNA splicing. It has been shown to be a component of U4/U6 x U5 tri-snRNP complex in human, Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. SART-1 is a known tumour antigen in a range of cancers recognised by T cells.
GLYCAM-1	Glycosylation-dependent cell adhesion molecule 1 (GlyCAM-1). This family consists of the lactophorin precursors proteose peptone component 3 (PP3) and glycosylation-dependent cell adhesion molecule 1 (GlyCAM-1). GlyCAM-1 functions as a ligand for L-selectin, a saccharide-binding protein on the surface of circulating leukocytes, and mediates the trafficking of blood-born lymphocytes into secondary lymph nodes. In this context, sulphatation of the carbohydrates of GlyCAM-1 has been shown to be a critical structural requirement to be recognised by L-selectin. GlyCAM-1 is also expressed in pregnant and lactating mammary glands of mouse and in an unknown site in the lung, in the bovine uterus and rat cochlea.
Ribophorin_I	Ribophorin I. Ribophorin I is an essential subunit of oligosaccharyltransferase (OST), which is also known as Dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide-protein glycosyltransferase, (EC:2.4.1.119). OST catalyses the transfer of an oligosaccharide from dolichol pyrophosphate to selected asparagine residues of nascent polypeptides as they are translocated into the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Ribophorin I and OST48 are though to be responsible for OST catalytic activity. Both yeast and mammalian proteins are glycosylated but the sites are not conserved. Glycosylation may contribute towards general solubility but is unlikely to be involved in a specific biochemical function Most family members are predicted to have a transmembrane helix at the C terminus of this region.
DUF367	Domain of unknown function (DUF367). 
DUF2182	Predicted metal-binding integral membrane protein (DUF2182). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial membrane proteins having predicted metal-binding properties, has no known function.
PRA-CH	Phosphoribosyl-AMP cyclohydrolase. This enzyme catalyses the third step in the histidine biosynthetic pathway. It requires Zn ions for activity.
Btz	CASC3/Barentsz eIF4AIII binding. This domain is found on CASC3 (cancer susceptibility candidate gene 3 protein) which is also known as Barentsz (Btz). CASC3 is a component of the EJC (exon junction complex) which is a complex that is involved in post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA in metazoa. The complex is formed by the association of four proteins (eIF4AIII, Barentsz, Mago, and Y14), mRNA, and ATP. This domain wraps around eIF4AIII and stacks against the 5' nucleotide.
APS_kinase	Adenylylsulphate kinase. Enzyme that catalyses the phosphorylation of adenylylsulphate to 3'-phosphoadenylylsulfate. This domain contains an ATP binding P-loop motif.
SQS_PSY	Squalene/phytoene synthase. 
malic	Malic enzyme, N-terminal domain. 
Rab5ip	Rab5-interacting protein (Rab5ip). This family consists of several Rab5-interacting protein (RIP5 or Rab5ip ) sequences. The ras-related GTPase rab5 is rate-limiting for homotypic early endosome fusion. Rab5ip represents a novel rab5 interacting protein that may function on endocytic vesicles as a receptor for rab5-GDP and participate in the activation of rab5.
Neurochondrin	Neurochondrin. This family contains several eukaryotic neurochondrin proteins. Neurochondrin induces hydroxyapatite resorptive activity in bone marrow cells resistant to bafilomycin A1, an inhibitor of macrophage- and osteoclast-mediated resorption. Expression of the gene is localised to chondrocyte, osteoblast, and osteocyte in the bone and to the hippocampus and Purkinje cell layer of cerebellum in the brain.
TFIID_30kDa	Transcription initiation factor TFIID 23-30kDa subunit. 
Fcf2	Fcf2 pre-rRNA processing. This is a family of eukaryotic nucleolar proteins that are involved in pre-rRNA processing.
ECH	Enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family. This family contains a diverse set of enzymes including: Enoyl-CoA hydratase. Napthoate synthase. Carnitate racemase. 3-hydoxybutyryl-CoA dehydratase. Dodecanoyl-CoA delta-isomerase.
NAD_binding_6	Ferric reductase NAD binding domain. 
LRR_3	Leucine Rich Repeat. This Pfam entry includes some LRRs that fail to be detected by the pfam00560 model.
DUF932	Domain of unknown function (DUF932). Family of Proteobacteria proteins with unknown function.
vATP-synt_E	ATP synthase (E/31 kDa) subunit. This family includes the vacuolar ATP synthase E subunit, as well as the archaebacterial ATP synthase E subunit.
RNA_POL_M_15KD	RNA polymerases M/15 Kd subunit. 
LA-virus_coat	L-A virus, major coat protein. Members of this family form the major coat protein of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae L-A virus.
Ribosomal_L1	Ribosomal protein L1p/L10e family. This family includes prokaryotic L1 and eukaryotic L10.
TspO_MBR	TspO/MBR family. Tryptophan-rich sensory protein (TspO) is an integral membrane protein that acts as a negative regulator of the expression of specific photosynthesis genes in response to oxygen/light. It is involved in the efflux of porphyrin intermediates from the cell. This reduces the activity of coproporphyrinogen III oxidase, which is thought to lead to the accumulation of a putative repressor molecule that inhibits the expression of specific photosynthesis genes. Several conserved aromatic residues are necessary for TspO function: they are thought to be involved in binding porphyrin intermediates. In, the rat mitochondrial peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (MBR) was shown to not only retain its structure within a bacterial outer membrane, but also to be able to functionally substitute for TspO in TspO- mutants, and to act in a similar manner to TspO in its in situ location: the outer mitochondrial membrane. The biological significance of MBR remains unclear, however. It is thought to be involved in a variety of cellular functions, including cholesterol transport in steroidogenic tissues.
DUF2400	Protein of unknown function (DUF2400). Members of this uncharacterised protein family are found sporadically, so far only among spirochetes, epsilon and delta proteobacteria, and Bacteroides. The function is unknown and its gene neighbourhoods show little conservation.
Arginosuc_synth	Arginosuccinate synthase. This family contains a PP-loop motif.
YccV-like	Hemimethylated DNA-binding protein YccV like. YccV is a hemimethylated DNA binding protein which has been shown to regulate dnaA gene expression. The structure of one of the hypothetical proteins in this family has been solved and it forms a beta sheet structure with a terminating alpha helix.
MAP2_projctn	MAP2/Tau projection domain. This domain is found in the MAP2/Tau family of proteins which includes MAP2, MAP4, Tau, and their homologs. All isoforms contain a conserved C-terminal domain containing tubulin-binding repeats (pfam00418), and a N-terminal projection domain of varying size. This domain has a net negative charge and exerts a long-range repulsive force. This provides a mechanism that can regulate microtubule spacing which might facilitate efficient organelle transport.
DapB_N	Dihydrodipicolinate reductase, N-terminus. Dihydrodipicolinate reductase (DapB) reduces the alpha,beta-unsaturated cyclic imine, dihydro-dipicolinate. This reaction is the second committed step in the biosynthesis of L-lysine and its precursor meso-diaminopimelate, which are critical for both protein and cell wall biosynthesis. The N-terminal domain of DapB binds the dinucleotide NADPH.
Sigma54_activat	Sigma-54 interaction domain. 
DUF6	Integral membrane protein DUF6. This family includes many hypothetical membrane proteins of unknown function. Many of the proteins contain two copies of the aligned region.
PG_binding_1	Putative peptidoglycan binding domain. This domain is composed of three alpha helices. This domain is found at the N or C terminus of a variety of enzymes involved in bacterial cell wall degradation. This domain may have a general peptidoglycan binding function. This family is found N-terminal to the catalytic domain of matrixins.
Lipin_N	lipin, N-terminal conserved region. Mutations in the lipin gene lead to fatty liver dystrophy in mice. The protein has been shown to be phosphorylated by the TOR Ser/Thr protein kinases in response to insulin stimulation. The conserved region is found at the N-terminus of the member proteins.
Oxidored_FMN	NADH:flavin oxidoreductase / NADH oxidase family. 
FAD_binding_2	FAD binding domain. This family includes members that bind FAD. This family includes the flavoprotein subunits from succinate and fumarate dehydrogenase, aspartate oxidase and the alpha subunit of adenylylsulphate reductase.
Alpha-mann_mid	Alpha mannosidase, middle domain. Members of this family adopt a structure consisting of three alpha helices, in an immunoglobulin/albumin-binding domain-like fold. They are predominantly found in the enzyme alpha-mannosidase.
zf-C3HC4	Zinc finger, C3HC4 type (RING finger). The C3HC4 type zinc-finger (RING finger) is a cysteine-rich domain of 40 to 60 residues that coordinates two zinc ions, and has the consensus sequence: C-X2-C-X(9-39)-C-X(1-3)-H-X(2-3)-C-X2-C-X(4-48)-C-X2-C where X is any amino acid. Many proteins containing a RING finger play a key role in the ubiquitination pathway.
Leo1	Leo1-like protein. Members of this family are part of the Paf1/RNA polymerase II complex. The Paf1 complex probably functions during the elongation phase of transcription.
Defensin_2	Arthropod defensin. 
Molydop_binding	Molydopterin dinucleotide binding domain. This domain is found in various molybdopterin - containing oxidoreductases and tungsten formylmethanofuran dehydrogenase subunit d (FwdD) and molybdenum formylmethanofuran dehydrogenase subunit (FmdD); where the domain constitutes almost the entire subunit. The formylmethanofuran dehydrogenase catalyses the first step in methane formation from CO2 in methanogenic archaea and has a molybdopterin dinucleotide cofactor. This domain corresponds to the C-terminal domain IV in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)reductase which interacts with the 2-amino pyrimidone ring of both molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide molecules.
DUF572	Family of unknown function (DUF572). Family of eukaryotic proteins with undetermined function.
Methyltransf_15	RNA cap guanine-N2 methyltransferase. RNA cap guanine-N2 methyltransferases such as Schizosaccharomyces pombe Tgs1 and Giardia lamblia Tgs2 catalyse methylation of the exocyclic N2 amine of 7-methylguanosine.
Med11	Mediator complex protein. HSPC296_Med11 is reported to be orthologous to the yeast Med-11 Mediator subunit.
DUF972	Protein of unknown function (DUF972). This family consists of several hypothetical bacterial sequences. The function of this family is unknown.
Tfb2	Transcription factor Tfb2. 
PolyA_pol	Poly A polymerase head domain. This family includes nucleic acid independent RNA polymerases, such as Poly(A) polymerase, which adds the poly (A) tail to mRNA EC:2.7.7.19. This family also includes the tRNA nucleotidyltransferase that adds the CCA to the 3' of the tRNA EC:2.7.7.25.
Lipocalin_2	Lipocalin-like domain. Lipocalins are transporters for small hydrophobic molecules, such as lipids, steroid hormones, bilins, and retinoids. The structure is an eight-stranded beta barrel.
Phage_GPD	Phage late control gene D protein (GPD). This family consists of a number of phage late control gene D proteins and related bacterial sequences.
DUF1817	Domain of unknown function (DUF1817). Members of this family are functionally uncharacterised.
Vps52	Vps52 / Sac2 family. Vps52 complexes with Vps53 and Vps54 to form a multi- subunit complex involved in regulating membrane trafficking events.
Bin3	Bicoid-interacting protein 3 (Bin3). This family represents a conserved region of approximately 120 residues within eukaryotic Bicoid-interacting protein 3 (Bin3). Bin3, which shows similarity to a number of protein methyltransferases that modify RNA-binding proteins, interacts with Bicoid, which itself directs pattern formation in the early Drosophila embryo. The interaction might allow Bicoid to switch between its dual roles in transcription and translation. Note that family members contain a conserved HLN motif.
DUF515	Protein of unknown function (DUF515). Family of hypothetical Archaeal proteins.
WzyE	WzyE protein. This family consists of several WzyE proteins which appear to be specific to Enterobacteria. Members of this family are described as putative ECA polymerases this has been found to be incorrect. The function of this family is unknown.
Cpn60_TCP1	TCP-1/cpn60 chaperonin family. This family includes members from the HSP60 chaperone family and the TCP-1 (T-complex protein) family.
DUF2382	Domain of unknown function (DUF2382). This entry describes an uncharacterized domain, sometimes found in association with a PRC-barrel domain pfam05239 which is also found in rRNA processing protein RimM and in a photosynthetic reaction centre complex protein). This domain is found in proteins from Bacillus subtilis, Deinococcus radiodurans, Nostoc sp. PCC 7120, Myxococcus xanthus, and several other species. The function is not known.
Serpentine_r_xa	Caenorhabditis serpentine receptor-like protein, class xa. This family contains various Caenorhabditis proteins, some of which are annotated as being serpentine receptors, mainly of the xa class.
CM_2	Chorismate mutase type II. Chorismate mutase EC:5.4.99.5 catalyses the conversion of chorismate to prephenate in the pathway of tyrosine and phenylalanine biosynthesis. This enzyme is negatively regulated by tyrosine, tryptophan and phenylalanine.
Herpes_TAF50	Herpesvirus transcription activation factor (transactivator). This family includes EBV BRLF1 and similar ORF 50 proteins from other herpesviruses.
DUF620	Protein of unknown function (DUF620). Family of uncharacterised proteins.
HSBP1	Heat shock factor binding protein 1. Heat shock factor binding protein 1 (HSBP1) appears to be a negative regulator of the heat shock response.
PROCN	PROCN (NUC071) domain. The PROCN domain is the central domain in pre-mRNA splicing factors of PRO8 family.
Arv1	Arv1-like family. Arv1 is a transmembrane protein with potential zinc-binding motifs. ARV1 is a novel mediator of eukaryotic sterol homeostasis.
PSP	PSP. Proline rich domain found in numerous spliceosome associated proteins.
NOC3p	Nucleolar complex-associated protein. Nucleolar complex-associated protein (Noc3p) is conserved in eukaryotes and has essential roles in replication and rRNA processing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
RPH3A_effector	Rabphilin-3A effector domain. This is a family of proteins involved in protein transport in synaptic vesicles. Rabphilin-3A has been shown to contact Rab3A, a small G protein important in neurotransmitter release, in two distinct areas.
Flu_NS1	Influenza non-structural protein (NS1). NS1 is a homodimeric RNA-binding protein that is required for viral replication. NS1 binds polyA tails of mRNA keeping them in the nucleus. NS1 inhibits pre-mRNA splicing by tightly binding to a specific stem-bulge of U6 snRNA.
NPL4	NPL4 family. The HRD4 gene was identical to NPL4, a gene previously implicated in nuclear transport. Using a diverse set of substrates and direct ubiquitination assays, analysis revealed that HRD4/NPL4 is required for a poorly characterised step in ER-associated degradation after ubiquitination of target proteins but before their recognition by the 26S proteasome. Npl4p physically associates with Cdc48p via Ufd1p to form a Cdc48p-Ufd1p-Npl4p complex. The Cdc48-Ufd1-Npl4 complex functions in the recognition of several polyubiquitin-tagged proteins and facilitates their presentation to the 26S proteasome for processive degradation or even more specific processing.
GSH-S_ATP	Prokaryotic glutathione synthetase, ATP-grasp domain. 
Aconitase_2_N	Aconitate hydratase 2 N-terminus. This family represents the N-terminal region of several bacterial Aconitate hydratase 2 proteins and is found in conjunction with pfam00330.
Voltage_CLC	Voltage gated chloride channel. This family of ion channels contains 10 or 12 transmembrane helices. Each protein forms a single pore. It has been shown that some members of this family form homodimers. In terms of primary structure, they are unrelated to known cation channels or other types of anion channels. Three ClC subfamilies are found in animals. ClC-1 is involved in setting and restoring the resting membrane potential of skeletal muscle, while other channels play important parts in solute concentration mechanisms in the kidney. These proteins contain two pfam00571 domains.
cNMP_binding	Cyclic nucleotide-binding domain. 
Golgin_A5	Golgin subfamily A member 5. Members of this family of proteins are involved in maintaining Golgi structure. They stimulate the formation of Golgi stacks and ribbons, and are involved in intra-Golgi retrograde transport. Two main interactions have been characterised: one with RAB1A that has been activated by GTP-binding and another with isoform CASP of CUTL1.
ChaC	ChaC-like protein. The ChaC protein is thought to be associated with the putative ChaA Ca2+/H+ cation transport protein in Escherichia coli. Its function is not known. This family also includes homologues regions from several other bacterial and eukaryotic proteins.
Sybindin	Sybindin-like family. Sybindin is a physiological syndecan-2 ligand on dendritic spines, the small protrusions on the surface of dendrites that receive the vast majority of excitatory synapses.
DUF2243	Predicted membrane protein (DUF2243). This domain, found in various hypothetical bacterial proteins, has no known function.
Bul1_C	Bul1 C terminus. This family contains the C terminus of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Bul1. Bul1 binds the ubiquitin ligase Rsp5, via an N terminal PPSY motif. The complex containing Bul1 and Rsp5 is involved in intracellular trafficking of the general amino acid permease Gap1, degradation of Rog1 in cooperation with Bul2 and GSK-3, and mitochondrial inheritance. Bul1 may contain HEAT repeats.
UPF0160	Uncharacterised protein family (UPF0160). This family of proteins contains a large number of metal binding residues. The patterns are suggestive of a phosphoesterase function. The conserved DHH motif may mean this family is related to pfam01368.
Transformer	Fruit fly transformer protein. This family consists of transformer proteins from several Drosophila species and also from Ceratitis capitata (Mediterranean fruit fly). The transformer locus (tra) produces an RNA processing protein that alternatively splices the doublesex pre-mRNA in the sex determination hierarchy of Drosophila melanogaster.
Peptidase_S49_N	Peptidase family S49 N-terminal. This domain is found to the N-terminus of bacterial signal peptidases of the S49 family (pfam01343).
Ocular_alb	Ocular albinism type 1 protein. 
DUF640	Protein of unknown function (DUF640). This family represents a conserved region found in plant proteins including Resistance protein-like protein.